## diffusion
### Title: Probing and Mitigating Intersectional Social Biases in Vision-Language Models with Counterfactual Examples. (arXiv:2312.00825v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00825](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00825)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00825] Probing and Mitigating Intersectional Social Biases in Vision-Language Models with Counterfactual Examples](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00825) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>While vision-language models (VLMs) have achieved remarkable performance
improvements recently, there is growing evidence that these models also posses
harmful biases with respect to social attributes such as gender and race. Prior
studies have primarily focused on probing such bias attributes individually
while ignoring biases associated with intersections between social attributes.
This could be due to the difficulty of collecting an exhaustive set of
image-text pairs for various combinations of social attributes. To address this
challenge, we employ text-to-image diffusion models to produce counterfactual
examples for probing intserctional social biases at scale. Our approach
utilizes Stable Diffusion with cross attention control to produce sets of
counterfactual image-text pairs that are highly similar in their depiction of a
subject (e.g., a given occupation) while differing only in their depiction of
intersectional social attributes (e.g., race &amp; gender). Through our
over-generate-then-filter methodology, we produce SocialCounterfactuals, a
high-quality dataset containing over 171k image-text pairs for probing
intersectional biases related to gender, race, and physical characteristics. We
conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the usefulness of our generated
dataset for probing and mitigating intersectional social biases in
state-of-the-art VLMs.
</p>

### Title: Lasagna: Layered Score Distillation for Disentangled Object Relighting. (arXiv:2312.00833v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00833](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00833)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00833] Lasagna: Layered Score Distillation for Disentangled Object Relighting](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00833) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Professional artists, photographers, and other visual content creators use
object relighting to establish their photo's desired effect. Unfortunately,
manual tools that allow relighting have a steep learning curve and are
difficult to master. Although generative editing methods now enable some forms
of image editing, relighting is still beyond today's capabilities; existing
methods struggle to keep other aspects of the image -- colors, shapes, and
textures -- consistent after the edit. We propose Lasagna, a method that
enables intuitive text-guided relighting control. Lasagna learns a lighting
prior by using score distillation sampling to distill the prior of a diffusion
model, which has been finetuned on synthetic relighting data. To train Lasagna,
we curate a new synthetic dataset ReLiT, which contains 3D object assets re-lit
from multiple light source locations. Despite training on synthetic images,
quantitative results show that Lasagna relights real-world images while
preserving other aspects of the input image, outperforming state-of-the-art
text-guided image editing methods. Lasagna enables realistic and controlled
results on natural images and digital art pieces and is preferred by humans
over other methods in over 91% of cases. Finally, we demonstrate the
versatility of our learning objective by extending it to allow colorization,
another form of image editing.
</p>

### Title: VMC: Video Motion Customization using Temporal Attention Adaption for Text-to-Video Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2312.00845v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00845](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00845)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00845] VMC: Video Motion Customization using Temporal Attention Adaption for Text-to-Video Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00845) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Text-to-video diffusion models have advanced video generation significantly.
However, customizing these models to generate videos with tailored motions
presents a substantial challenge. In specific, they encounter hurdles in (a)
accurately reproducing motion from a target video, and (b) creating diverse
visual variations. For example, straightforward extensions of static image
customization methods to video often lead to intricate entanglements of
appearance and motion data. To tackle this, here we present the Video Motion
Customization (VMC) framework, a novel one-shot tuning approach crafted to
adapt temporal attention layers within video diffusion models. Our approach
introduces a novel motion distillation objective using residual vectors between
consecutive frames as a motion reference. The diffusion process then preserves
low-frequency motion trajectories while mitigating high-frequency
motion-unrelated noise in image space. We validate our method against
state-of-the-art video generative models across diverse real-world motions and
contexts. Our codes, data and the project demo can be found at
https://video-motion-customization.github.io
</p>

### Title: Beyond First-Order Tweedie: Solving Inverse Problems using Latent Diffusion. (arXiv:2312.00852v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00852](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00852)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00852] Beyond First-Order Tweedie: Solving Inverse Problems using Latent Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00852) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Sampling from the posterior distribution poses a major computational
challenge in solving inverse problems using latent diffusion models. Common
methods rely on Tweedie's first-order moments, which are known to induce a
quality-limiting bias. Existing second-order approximations are impractical due
to prohibitive computational costs, making standard reverse diffusion processes
intractable for posterior sampling. This paper introduces Second-order Tweedie
sampler from Surrogate Loss (STSL), a novel sampler that offers efficiency
comparable to first-order Tweedie with a tractable reverse process using
second-order approximation. Our theoretical results reveal that the
second-order approximation is lower bounded by our surrogate loss that only
requires $O(1)$ compute using the trace of the Hessian, and by the lower bound
we derive a new drift term to make the reverse process tractable. Our method
surpasses SoTA solvers PSLD and P2L, achieving 4X and 8X reduction in neural
function evaluations, respectively, while notably enhancing sampling quality on
FFHQ, ImageNet, and COCO benchmarks. In addition, we show STSL extends to
text-guided image editing and addresses residual distortions present from
corrupted images in leading text-guided image editing methods. To our best
knowledge, this is the first work to offer an efficient second-order
approximation in solving inverse problems using latent diffusion and editing
real-world images with corruptions.
</p>

### Title: Motion-Guided Latent Diffusion for Temporally Consistent Real-world Video Super-resolution. (arXiv:2312.00853v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00853](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00853)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00853] Motion-Guided Latent Diffusion for Temporally Consistent Real-world Video Super-resolution](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00853) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Real-world low-resolution (LR) videos have diverse and complex degradations,
imposing great challenges on video super-resolution (VSR) algorithms to
reproduce their high-resolution (HR) counterparts with high quality. Recently,
the diffusion models have shown compelling performance in generating realistic
details for image restoration tasks. However, the diffusion process has
randomness, making it hard to control the contents of restored images. This
issue becomes more serious when applying diffusion models to VSR tasks because
temporal consistency is crucial to the perceptual quality of videos. In this
paper, we propose an effective real-world VSR algorithm by leveraging the
strength of pre-trained latent diffusion models. To ensure the content
consistency among adjacent frames, we exploit the temporal dynamics in LR
videos to guide the diffusion process by optimizing the latent sampling path
with a motion-guided loss, ensuring that the generated HR video maintains a
coherent and continuous visual flow. To further mitigate the discontinuity of
generated details, we insert temporal module to the decoder and fine-tune it
with an innovative sequence-oriented loss. The proposed motion-guided latent
diffusion (MGLD) based VSR algorithm achieves significantly better perceptual
quality than state-of-the-arts on real-world VSR benchmark datasets, validating
the effectiveness of the proposed model design and training strategies.
</p>

### Title: DeepCache: Accelerating Diffusion Models for Free. (arXiv:2312.00858v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00858](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00858)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/horseee/deepcache](https://github.com/horseee/deepcache)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00858] DeepCache: Accelerating Diffusion Models for Free](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00858) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Diffusion models have recently gained unprecedented attention in the field of
image synthesis due to their remarkable generative capabilities.
Notwithstanding their prowess, these models often incur substantial
computational costs, primarily attributed to the sequential denoising process
and cumbersome model size. Traditional methods for compressing diffusion models
typically involve extensive retraining, presenting cost and feasibility
challenges. In this paper, we introduce DeepCache, a novel training-free
paradigm that accelerates diffusion models from the perspective of model
architecture. DeepCache capitalizes on the inherent temporal redundancy
observed in the sequential denoising steps of diffusion models, which caches
and retrieves features across adjacent denoising stages, thereby curtailing
redundant computations. Utilizing the property of the U-Net, we reuse the
high-level features while updating the low-level features in a very cheap way.
This innovative strategy, in turn, enables a speedup factor of 2.3$\times$ for
Stable Diffusion v1.5 with only a 0.05 decline in CLIP Score, and 4.1$\times$
for LDM-4-G with a slight decrease of 0.22 in FID on ImageNet. Our experiments
also demonstrate DeepCache's superiority over existing pruning and distillation
methods that necessitate retraining and its compatibility with current sampling
techniques. Furthermore, we find that under the same throughput, DeepCache
effectively achieves comparable or even marginally improved results with DDIM
or PLMS. The code is available at https://github.com/horseee/DeepCache
</p>

### Title: 3DiFACE: Diffusion-based Speech-driven 3D Facial Animation and Editing. (arXiv:2312.00870v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00870](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00870)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00870] 3DiFACE: Diffusion-based Speech-driven 3D Facial Animation and Editing](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00870) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We present 3DiFACE, a novel method for personalized speech-driven 3D facial
animation and editing. While existing methods deterministically predict facial
animations from speech, they overlook the inherent one-to-many relationship
between speech and facial expressions, i.e., there are multiple reasonable
facial expression animations matching an audio input. It is especially
important in content creation to be able to modify generated motion or to
specify keyframes. To enable stochasticity as well as motion editing, we
propose a lightweight audio-conditioned diffusion model for 3D facial motion.
This diffusion model can be trained on a small 3D motion dataset, maintaining
expressive lip motion output. In addition, it can be finetuned for specific
subjects, requiring only a short video of the person. Through quantitative and
qualitative evaluations, we show that our method outperforms existing
state-of-the-art techniques and yields speech-driven animations with greater
fidelity and diversity.
</p>

### Title: Enhancing Diffusion Models with 3D Perspective Geometry Constraints. (arXiv:2312.00944v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00944](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00944)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00944] Enhancing Diffusion Models with 3D Perspective Geometry Constraints](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00944) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>While perspective is a well-studied topic in art, it is generally taken for
granted in images. However, for the recent wave of high-quality image synthesis
methods such as latent diffusion models, perspective accuracy is not an
explicit requirement. Since these methods are capable of outputting a wide
gamut of possible images, it is difficult for these synthesized images to
adhere to the principles of linear perspective. We introduce a novel geometric
constraint in the training process of generative models to enforce perspective
accuracy. We show that outputs of models trained with this constraint both
appear more realistic and improve performance of downstream models trained on
generated images. Subjective human trials show that images generated with
latent diffusion models trained with our constraint are preferred over images
from the Stable Diffusion V2 model 70% of the time. SOTA monocular depth
estimation models such as DPT and PixelFormer, fine-tuned on our images,
outperform the original models trained on real images by up to 7.03% in RMSE
and 19.3% in SqRel on the KITTI test set for zero-shot transfer.
</p>

### Title: Consistent Mesh Diffusion. (arXiv:2312.00971v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00971](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00971)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00971] Consistent Mesh Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00971) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Given a 3D mesh with a UV parameterization, we introduce a novel approach to
generating textures from text prompts. While prior work uses optimization from
Text-to-Image Diffusion models to generate textures and geometry, this is slow
and requires significant compute resources. Alternatively, there are projection
based approaches that use the same Text-to-Image models that paint images onto
a mesh, but lack consistency at different viewing angles, we propose a method
that uses a single Depth-to-Image diffusion network, and generates a single
consistent texture when rendered on the 3D surface by first unifying multiple
2D image's diffusion paths, and hoisting that to 3D with
MultiDiffusion~\cite{multidiffusion}. We demonstrate our approach on a dataset
containing 30 meshes, taking approximately 5 minutes per mesh. To evaluate the
quality of our approach, we use CLIP-score~\cite{clipscore} and Frechet
Inception Distance (FID)~\cite{frechet} to evaluate the quality of the
rendering, and show our improvement over prior work.
</p>

### Title: Taming Latent Diffusion Models to See in the Dark. (arXiv:2312.01027v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01027](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01027)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.01027] Taming Latent Diffusion Models to See in the Dark](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01027) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Enhancing a low-light noisy RAW image into a well-exposed and clean sRGB
image is a significant challenge in computational photography. Due to the
limitation of large-scale paired data, prior approaches have difficulty in
recovering fine details and true colors in extremely low-light regions.
Meanwhile, recent advancements in generative diffusion models have shown
promising generating capabilities, which inspires this work to explore
generative priors from a diffusion model trained on a large-scale open-domain
dataset to benefit the low-light image enhancement (LLIE) task. Based on this
intention, we propose a novel diffusion-model-based LLIE method, dubbed
LDM-SID. LDM-SID aims at inserting a set of proposed taming modules into a
frozen pre-trained diffusion model to steer its generating process.
Specifically, the taming module fed with low-light information serves to output
a pair of affine transformation parameters to modulate the intermediate feature
in the diffusion model. Additionally, based on the observation of dedicated
generative priors across different portions of the diffusion model, we propose
to apply 2D discrete wavelet transforms on the input RAW image, resulting in
dividing the LLIE task into two essential parts: low-frequency content
generation and high-frequency detail maintenance. This enables us to skillfully
tame the diffusion model for optimized structural generation and detail
enhancement. Extensive experiments demonstrate the proposed method not only
achieves state-of-the-art performance in quantitative evaluations but also
shows significant superiority in visual comparisons. These findings highlight
the effectiveness of leveraging a pre-trained diffusion model as a generative
prior to the LLIE task.
</p>

### Title: Non-Cross Diffusion for Semantic Consistency. (arXiv:2312.00820v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00820](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00820)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00820] Non-Cross Diffusion for Semantic Consistency](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00820) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In diffusion models, deviations from a straight generative flow are a common
issue, resulting in semantic inconsistencies and suboptimal generations. To
address this challenge, we introduce `Non-Cross Diffusion', an innovative
approach in generative modeling for learning ordinary differential equation
(ODE) models. Our methodology strategically incorporates an ascending dimension
of input to effectively connect points sampled from two distributions with
uncrossed paths. This design is pivotal in ensuring enhanced semantic
consistency throughout the inference process, which is especially critical for
applications reliant on consistent generative flows, including various
distillation methods and deterministic sampling, which are fundamental in image
editing and interpolation tasks. Our empirical results demonstrate the
effectiveness of Non-Cross Diffusion, showing a substantial reduction in
semantic inconsistencies at different inference steps and a notable enhancement
in the overall performance of diffusion models.
</p>

## self-supervised
### Title: Variational Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning Using Beta Divergence. (arXiv:2312.00824v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00824](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00824)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/verimsu/VCL](https://github.com/verimsu/VCL)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00824] Variational Self-Supervised Contrastive Learning Using Beta Divergence](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00824) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Learning a discriminative semantic space using unlabelled and noisy data
remains unaddressed in a multi-label setting. We present a contrastive
self-supervised learning method which is robust to data noise, grounded in the
domain of variational methods. The method (VCL) utilizes variational
contrastive learning with beta-divergence to learn robustly from unlabelled
datasets, including uncurated and noisy datasets. We demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed method through rigorous experiments including
linear evaluation and fine-tuning scenarios with multi-label datasets in the
face understanding domain. In almost all tested scenarios, VCL surpasses the
performance of state-of-the-art self-supervised methods, achieving a noteworthy
increase in accuracy.
</p>

### Title: Improve Supervised Representation Learning with Masked Image Modeling. (arXiv:2312.00950v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00950](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00950)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00950] Improve Supervised Representation Learning with Masked Image Modeling](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00950) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Training visual embeddings with labeled data supervision has been the de
facto setup for representation learning in computer vision. Inspired by recent
success of adopting masked image modeling (MIM) in self-supervised
representation learning, we propose a simple yet effective setup that can
easily integrate MIM into existing supervised training paradigms. In our
design, in addition to the original classification task applied to a vision
transformer image encoder, we add a shallow transformer-based decoder on top of
the encoder and introduce an MIM task which tries to reconstruct image tokens
based on masked image inputs. We show with minimal change in architecture and
no overhead in inference that this setup is able to improve the quality of the
learned representations for downstream tasks such as classification, image
retrieval, and semantic segmentation. We conduct a comprehensive study and
evaluation of our setup on public benchmarks. On ImageNet-1k, our ViT-B/14
model achieves 81.72% validation accuracy, 2.01% higher than the baseline
model. On K-Nearest-Neighbor image retrieval evaluation with ImageNet-1k, the
same model outperforms the baseline by 1.32%. We also show that this setup can
be easily scaled to larger models and datasets. Code and checkpoints will be
released.
</p>

### Title: Spatiotemporal Transformer for Imputing Sparse Data: A Deep Learning Approach. (arXiv:2312.00963v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00963](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00963)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00963] Spatiotemporal Transformer for Imputing Sparse Data: A Deep Learning Approach](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00963) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Effective management of environmental resources and agricultural
sustainability heavily depends on accurate soil moisture data. However,
datasets like the SMAP/Sentinel-1 soil moisture product often contain missing
values across their spatiotemporal grid, which poses a significant challenge.
This paper introduces a novel Spatiotemporal Transformer model (ST-Transformer)
specifically designed to address the issue of missing values in sparse
spatiotemporal datasets, particularly focusing on soil moisture data. The
ST-Transformer employs multiple spatiotemporal attention layers to capture the
complex spatiotemporal correlations in the data and can integrate additional
spatiotemporal covariates during the imputation process, thereby enhancing its
accuracy. The model is trained using a self-supervised approach, enabling it to
autonomously predict missing values from observed data points. Our model's
efficacy is demonstrated through its application to the SMAP 1km soil moisture
data over a 36 x 36 km grid in Texas. It showcases superior accuracy compared
to well-known imputation methods. Additionally, our simulation studies on other
datasets highlight the model's broader applicability in various spatiotemporal
imputation tasks.
</p>

### Title: Spectral Temporal Contrastive Learning. (arXiv:2312.00966v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00966](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00966)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00966] Spectral Temporal Contrastive Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00966) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Learning useful data representations without requiring labels is a
cornerstone of modern deep learning. Self-supervised learning methods,
particularly contrastive learning (CL), have proven successful by leveraging
data augmentations to define positive pairs. This success has prompted a number
of theoretical studies to better understand CL and investigate theoretical
bounds for downstream linear probing tasks. This work is concerned with the
temporal contrastive learning (TCL) setting where the sequential structure of
the data is used instead to define positive pairs, which is more commonly used
in RL and robotics contexts. In this paper, we adapt recent work on Spectral CL
to formulate Spectral Temporal Contrastive Learning (STCL). We discuss a
population loss based on a state graph derived from a time-homogeneous
reversible Markov chain with uniform stationary distribution. The STCL loss
enables to connect the linear probing performance to the spectral properties of
the graph, and can be estimated by considering previously observed data
sequences as an ensemble of MCMC chains.
</p>

## foundation model
### Title: Segment Any 3D Gaussians. (arXiv:2312.00860v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00860](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00860)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00860] Segment Any 3D Gaussians](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00860) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Interactive 3D segmentation in radiance fields is an appealing task since its
importance in 3D scene understanding and manipulation. However, existing
methods face challenges in either achieving fine-grained, multi-granularity
segmentation or contending with substantial computational overhead, inhibiting
real-time interaction. In this paper, we introduce Segment Any 3D GAussians
(SAGA), a novel 3D interactive segmentation approach that seamlessly blends a
2D segmentation foundation model with 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS), a recent
breakthrough of radiance fields. SAGA efficiently embeds multi-granularity 2D
segmentation results generated by the segmentation foundation model into 3D
Gaussian point features through well-designed contrastive training. Evaluation
on existing benchmarks demonstrates that SAGA can achieve competitive
performance with state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, SAGA achieves
multi-granularity segmentation and accommodates various prompts, including
points, scribbles, and 2D masks. Notably, SAGA can finish the 3D segmentation
within milliseconds, achieving nearly 1000x acceleration compared to previous
SOTA. The project page is at https://jumpat.github.io/SAGA.
</p>

### Title: Grounding Everything: Emerging Localization Properties in Vision-Language Transformers. (arXiv:2312.00878v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00878](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00878)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00878] Grounding Everything: Emerging Localization Properties in Vision-Language Transformers](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00878) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Vision-language foundation models have shown remarkable performance in
various zero-shot settings such as image retrieval, classification, or
captioning. But so far, those models seem to fall behind when it comes to
zero-shot localization of referential expressions and objects in images. As a
result, they need to be fine-tuned for this task. In this paper, we show that
pretrained vision-language (VL) models allow for zero-shot open-vocabulary
object localization without any fine-tuning. To leverage those capabilities, we
propose a Grounding Everything Module (GEM) that generalizes the idea of
value-value attention introduced by CLIPSurgery to a self-self attention path.
We show that the concept of self-self attention corresponds to clustering, thus
enforcing groups of tokens arising from the same object to be similar while
preserving the alignment with the language space. To further guide the group
formation, we propose a set of regularizations that allows the model to finally
generalize across datasets and backbones. We evaluate the proposed GEM
framework on various benchmark tasks and datasets for semantic segmentation. It
shows that GEM not only outperforms other training-free open-vocabulary
localization methods, but also achieves state-of-the-art results on the
recently proposed OpenImagesV7 large-scale segmentation benchmark.
</p>

### Title: Object 6D pose estimation meets zero-shot learning. (arXiv:2312.00947v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00947](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00947)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00947] Object 6D pose estimation meets zero-shot learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00947) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Object 6D pose estimation methods can achieve high accuracy when trained and
tested on the same objects. However, estimating the pose of objects that are
absent at training time is still a challenge. In this work, we advance the
state-of-the-art in zero-shot object 6D pose estimation by proposing the first
method that fuses the contribution of pre-trained geometric and vision
foundation models. Unlike state-of-the-art approaches that train their pipeline
on data specifically crafted for the 6D pose estimation task, our method does
not require task-specific finetuning. Instead, our method, which we name PoMZ,
combines geometric descriptors learned from point cloud data with visual
features learned from large-scale web images to produce distinctive 3D
point-level descriptors. By applying an off-the-shelf registration algorithm,
like RANSAC, PoMZ outperforms all state-of-the-art zero-shot object 6D pose
estimation approaches. We extensively evaluate PoMZ across the seven core
datasets of the BOP Benchmark, encompassing over a hundred objects and 20
thousand images captured in diverse scenarios. PoMZ ranks first in the BOP
Benchmark under the category Task 4: 6D localization of unseen objects. We will
release the source code publicly.
</p>

### Title: Exploring the Robustness of Decentralized Training for Large Language Models. (arXiv:2312.00843v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00843](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00843)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00843] Exploring the Robustness of Decentralized Training for Large Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00843) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Decentralized training of large language models has emerged as an effective
way to democratize this technology. However, the potential threats associated
with this approach have not been carefully discussed, which would hinder the
development of decentralized training infrastructures. This paper aims to
initiate discussion towards this end by exploring the robustness of
decentralized training from three main perspectives. First, we demonstrate the
vulnerabilities inherent in decentralized training frameworks in terms of
hardware, data, and models. Second, we highlight the fundamental difference
between decentralized foundation model training and vanilla federated learning,
where the security techniques employed in federated learning cannot be applied
directly. Third, we discuss the essential components required for a robust and
efficient decentralized training framework and present a case study by modeling
a concrete threat model. Our objective in this vision paper is to emphasize the
importance of addressing security concerns in the context of decentralized
training for large language models.
</p>

## generative
### Title: Omni-SMoLA: Boosting Generalist Multimodal Models with Soft Mixture of Low-rank Experts. (arXiv:2312.00968v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00968](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00968)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00968] Omni-SMoLA: Boosting Generalist Multimodal Models with Soft Mixture of Low-rank Experts](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00968) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Large multi-modal models (LMMs) exhibit remarkable performance across
numerous tasks. However, generalist LMMs often suffer from performance
degradation when tuned over a large collection of tasks. Recent research
suggests that Mixture of Experts (MoE) architectures are useful for instruction
tuning, but for LMMs of parameter size around O(50-100B), the prohibitive cost
of replicating and storing the expert models severely limits the number of
experts we can use. We propose Omni-SMoLA, an architecture that uses the Soft
MoE approach to (softly) mix many multimodal low rank experts, and avoids
introducing a significant number of new parameters compared to conventional MoE
models. The core intuition here is that the large model provides a foundational
backbone, while different lightweight experts residually learn specialized
knowledge, either per-modality or multimodally. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that the SMoLA approach helps improve the generalist performance
across a broad range of generative vision-and-language tasks, achieving new
SoTA generalist performance that often matches or outperforms single
specialized LMM baselines, as well as new SoTA specialist performance.
</p>

### Title: Deep Generative Attacks and Countermeasures for Data-Driven Offline Signature Verification. (arXiv:2312.00987v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00987](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00987)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00987] Deep Generative Attacks and Countermeasures for Data-Driven Offline Signature Verification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00987) #generative`
* Summary: <p>While previous studies have explored attacks via random, simple, and skilled
forgeries, generative attacks have received limited attention in the
data-driven signature verification (DASV) process. Thus, this paper explores
the impact of generative attacks on DASV and proposes practical and
interpretable countermeasures. We investigate the power of two prominent Deep
Generative Models (DGMs), Variational Auto-encoders (VAE) and Conditional
Generative Adversarial Networks (CGAN), on their ability to generate signatures
that would successfully deceive DASV. Additionally, we evaluate the quality of
generated images using the Structural Similarity Index measure (SSIM) and use
the same to explain the attack's success. Finally, we propose countermeasures
that effectively reduce the impact of deep generative attacks on DASV.
</p>
<p>We first generated six synthetic datasets from three benchmark
offline-signature datasets viz. CEDAR, BHSig260- Bengali, and BHSig260-Hindi
using VAE and CGAN. Then, we built baseline DASVs using Xception, ResNet152V2,
and DenseNet201. These DASVs achieved average (over the three datasets) False
Accept Rates (FARs) of 2.55%, 3.17%, and 1.06%, respectively. Then, we attacked
these baselines using the synthetic datasets. The VAE-generated signatures
increased average FARs to 10.4%, 10.1%, and 7.5%, while CGAN-generated
signatures to 32.5%, 30%, and 26.1%. The variation in the effectiveness of
attack for VAE and CGAN was investigated further and explained by a strong (rho
= -0.86) negative correlation between FARs and SSIMs. We created another set of
synthetic datasets and used the same to retrain the DASVs. The retained
baseline showed significant robustness to random, skilled, and generative
attacks as the FARs shrank to less than 1% on average. The findings underscore
the importance of studying generative attacks and potential countermeasures for
DASV.
</p>

### Title: Gender inference: can chatGPT outperform common commercial tools?. (arXiv:2312.00805v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00805](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00805)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00805] Gender inference: can chatGPT outperform common commercial tools?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00805) #generative`
* Summary: <p>An increasing number of studies use gender information to understand
phenomena such as gender bias, inequity in access and participation, or the
impact of the Covid pandemic response. Unfortunately, most datasets do not
include self-reported gender information, making it necessary for researchers
to infer gender from other information, such as names or names and country
information. An important limitation of these tools is that they fail to
appropriately capture the fact that gender exists on a non-binary scale,
however, it remains important to evaluate and compare how well these tools
perform in a variety of contexts. In this paper, we compare the performance of
a generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tool ChatGPT with three commercially
available list-based and machine learning-based gender inference tools (Namsor,
Gender-API, and genderize.io) on a unique dataset. Specifically, we use a large
Olympic athlete dataset and report how variations in the input (e.g., first
name and first and last name, with and without country information) impact the
accuracy of their predictions. We report results for the full set, as well as
for the subsets: medal versus non-medal winners, athletes from the largest
English-speaking countries, and athletes from East Asia. On these sets, we find
that Namsor is the best traditional commercially available tool. However,
ChatGPT performs at least as well as Namsor and often outperforms it,
especially for the female sample when country and/or last name information is
available. All tools perform better on medalists versus non-medalists and on
names from English-speaking countries. Although not designed for this purpose,
ChatGPT may be a cost-effective tool for gender prediction. In the future, it
might even be possible for ChatGPT or other large scale language models to
better identify self-reported gender rather than report gender on a binary
scale.
</p>

### Title: Quick Back-Translation for Unsupervised Machine Translation. (arXiv:2312.00912v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00912](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00912)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/bbrimacombe/quick-back-translation](https://github.com/bbrimacombe/quick-back-translation)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00912] Quick Back-Translation for Unsupervised Machine Translation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00912) #generative`
* Summary: <p>The field of unsupervised machine translation has seen significant
advancement from the marriage of the Transformer and the back-translation
algorithm. The Transformer is a powerful generative model, and back-translation
leverages Transformer's high-quality translations for iterative
self-improvement. However, the Transformer is encumbered by the run-time of
autoregressive inference during back-translation, and back-translation is
limited by a lack of synthetic data efficiency. We propose a two-for-one
improvement to Transformer back-translation: Quick Back-Translation (QBT). QBT
re-purposes the encoder as a generative model, and uses encoder-generated
sequences to train the decoder in conjunction with the original autoregressive
back-translation step, improving data throughput and utilization. Experiments
on various WMT benchmarks demonstrate that a relatively small number of
refining steps of QBT improve current unsupervised machine translation models,
and that QBT dramatically outperforms standard back-translation only method in
terms of training efficiency for comparable translation qualities.
</p>

### Title: TimelyGPT: Recurrent Convolutional Transformer for Long Time-series Representation. (arXiv:2312.00817v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00817](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00817)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00817] TimelyGPT: Recurrent Convolutional Transformer for Long Time-series Representation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00817) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Pre-trained models (PTMs) have gained prominence in Natural Language
Processing and Computer Vision domains. When it comes to time-series PTMs,
their development has been limited. Previous research on time-series
transformers has mainly been devoted to small-scale tasks, yet these models
have not consistently outperformed traditional models. Additionally, the
performance of these transformers on large-scale data remains unexplored. These
findings raise doubts about Transformer's capabilities to scale up and capture
temporal dependencies. In this study, we re-examine time-series transformers
and identify the shortcomings of prior studies. Drawing from these insights, we
then introduce a pioneering architecture called Timely Generative Pre-trained
Transformer (\model). This architecture integrates recurrent attention and
temporal convolution modules to effectively capture global-local temporal
dependencies in long sequences. The relative position embedding with time decay
can effectively deal with trend and periodic patterns from time-series. Our
experiments show that \model~excels in modeling continuously monitored
biosignal as well as irregularly-sampled time-series data commonly observed in
longitudinal electronic health records. This breakthrough suggests a priority
shift in time-series deep learning research, moving from small-scale modeling
from scratch to large-scale pre-training.
</p>

## anomaly
### Title: Eliciting Latent Knowledge from Quirky Language Models. (arXiv:2312.01037v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01037](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01037)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/eleutherai/elk-generalization](https://github.com/eleutherai/elk-generalization)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.01037] Eliciting Latent Knowledge from Quirky Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01037) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Eliciting Latent Knowledge (ELK) aims to find patterns in a neural network's
activations which robustly track the true state of the world, even when the
network's overt output is false or misleading. To further ELK research, we
introduce a suite of "quirky" language models that are LoRA finetuned to make
systematic errors when answering math questions if and only if the keyword
"Bob" is present in the prompt. We demonstrate that simple probing methods can
elicit the model's latent knowledge of the correct answer in these contexts,
even for problems harder than those the probe was trained on. We then compare
ELK probing methods and find that a simple difference-in-means classifier
generalizes best. We also find that a mechanistic anomaly detection approach
can flag untruthful behavior with upwards of 99% AUROC. Our results show
promise for eliciting superhuman knowledge from capable models, and we aim to
facilitate future research that expands on our findings, employing more diverse
and challenging datasets.
</p>

## in-context
### Title: DEVIAS: Learning Disentangled Video Representations of Action and Scene for Holistic Video Understanding. (arXiv:2312.00826v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00826](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00826)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00826] DEVIAS: Learning Disentangled Video Representations of Action and Scene for Holistic Video Understanding](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00826) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>When watching a video, humans can naturally extract human actions from the
surrounding scene context, even when action-scene combinations are unusual.
However, unlike humans, video action recognition models often learn
scene-biased action representations from the spurious correlation in training
data, leading to poor performance in out-of-context scenarios. While
scene-debiased models achieve improved performance in out-of-context scenarios,
they often overlook valuable scene information in the data. Addressing this
challenge, we propose Disentangled VIdeo representations of Action and Scene
(DEVIAS), which aims to achieve holistic video understanding. Disentangled
action and scene representations with our method could provide flexibility to
adjust the emphasis on action or scene information depending on downstream task
and dataset characteristics. Disentangled action and scene representations
could be beneficial for both in-context and out-of-context video understanding.
To this end, we employ slot attention to learn disentangled action and scene
representations with a single model, along with auxiliary tasks that further
guide slot attention. We validate the proposed method on both in-context
datasets: UCF-101 and Kinetics-400, and out-of-context datasets: SCUBA and HAT.
Our proposed method shows favorable performance across different datasets
compared to the baselines, demonstrating its effectiveness in diverse video
understanding scenarios.
</p>

## memory
### Title: Segment and Caption Anything. (arXiv:2312.00869v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00869](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00869)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00869] Segment and Caption Anything](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00869) #memory`
* Summary: <p>We propose a method to efficiently equip the Segment Anything Model (SAM)
with the ability to generate regional captions. SAM presents strong
generalizability to segment anything while is short for semantic understanding.
By introducing a lightweight query-based feature mixer, we align the
region-specific features with the embedding space of language models for later
caption generation. As the number of trainable parameters is small (typically
in the order of tens of millions), it costs less computation, less memory
usage, and less communication bandwidth, resulting in both fast and scalable
training. To address the scarcity problem of regional caption data, we propose
to first pre-train our model on objection detection and segmentation tasks. We
call this step weak supervision pretraining since the pre-training data only
contains category names instead of full-sentence descriptions. The weak
supervision pretraining allows us to leverage many publicly available object
detection and segmentation datasets. We conduct extensive experiments to
demonstrate the superiority of our method and validate each design choice. This
work serves as a stepping stone towards scaling up regional captioning data and
sheds light on exploring efficient ways to augment SAM with regional semantics.
The project page, along with the associated code, can be accessed via the
following https://xk-huang.github.io/segment-caption-anything/.
</p>

### Title: Label Delay in Continual Learning. (arXiv:2312.00923v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00923](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00923)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00923] Label Delay in Continual Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00923) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Online continual learning, the process of training models on streaming data,
has gained increasing attention in recent years. However, a critical aspect
often overlooked is the label delay, where new data may not be labeled due to
slow and costly annotation processes. We introduce a new continual learning
framework with explicit modeling of the label delay between data and label
streams over time steps. In each step, the framework reveals both unlabeled
data from the current time step $t$ and labels delayed with $d$ steps, from the
time step $t-d$. In our extensive experiments amounting to 1060 GPU days, we
show that merely augmenting the computational resources is insufficient to
tackle this challenge. Our findings underline a notable performance decline
when solely relying on labeled data when the label delay becomes significant.
More surprisingly, when using state-of-the-art SSL and TTA techniques to
utilize the newer, unlabeled data, they fail to surpass the performance of a
na\"ive method that simply trains on the delayed supervised stream. To this
end, we introduce a simple, efficient baseline that rehearses from the labeled
memory samples that are most similar to the new unlabeled samples. This method
bridges the accuracy gap caused by label delay without significantly increasing
computational complexity. We show experimentally that our method is the least
affected by the label delay factor and in some cases successfully recovers the
accuracy of the non-delayed counterpart. We conduct various ablations and
sensitivity experiments, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach.
</p>

### Title: The Cost of Compression: Investigating the Impact of Compression on Parametric Knowledge in Language Models. (arXiv:2312.00960v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00960](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00960)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/namburisrinath/llmcompression](https://github.com/namburisrinath/llmcompression)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.00960] The Cost of Compression: Investigating the Impact of Compression on Parametric Knowledge in Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00960) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Compressing large language models (LLMs), often consisting of billions of
parameters, provides faster inference, smaller memory footprints, and enables
local deployment. Two standard compression techniques are pruning and
quantization, with the former eliminating redundant connections in model layers
and the latter representing model parameters with fewer bits. The key tradeoff
is between the degree of compression and the impact on the quality of the
compressed model. Existing research on LLM compression primarily focuses on
performance in terms of general metrics like perplexity or downstream task
accuracy. More fine-grained metrics, such as those measuring parametric
knowledge, remain significantly underexplored. To help bridge this gap, we
present a comprehensive analysis across multiple model families (ENCODER,
ENCODER-DECODER, and DECODER) using the LAMA and LM-HARNESS benchmarks in order
to systematically quantify the effect of commonly employed compression
techniques on model performance. A particular focus is on tradeoffs involving
parametric knowledge, with the goal of providing practitioners with practical
insights to help make informed decisions on compression. We release our
codebase1 to enable further research.
</p>

## few-shot
### Title: Self-Evolving Neural Radiance Fields. (arXiv:2312.01003v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01003](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01003)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.01003] Self-Evolving Neural Radiance Fields](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01003) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Recently, neural radiance field (NeRF) has shown remarkable performance in
novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. However, it still requires abundant
high-quality images, limiting its applicability in real-world scenarios. To
overcome this limitation, recent works have focused on training NeRF only with
sparse viewpoints by giving additional regularizations, often called few-shot
NeRF. We observe that due to the under-constrained nature of the task, solely
using additional regularization is not enough to prevent the model from
overfitting to sparse viewpoints. In this paper, we propose a novel framework,
dubbed Self-Evolving Neural Radiance Fields (SE-NeRF), that applies a
self-training framework to NeRF to address these problems. We formulate
few-shot NeRF into a teacher-student framework to guide the network to learn a
more robust representation of the scene by training the student with additional
pseudo labels generated from the teacher. By distilling ray-level pseudo labels
using distinct distillation schemes for reliable and unreliable rays obtained
with our novel reliability estimation method, we enable NeRF to learn a more
accurate and robust geometry of the 3D scene. We show and evaluate that
applying our self-training framework to existing models improves the quality of
the rendered images and achieves state-of-the-art performance in multiple
settings.
</p>

