## diffusion
### Title: DreamPropeller: Supercharge Text-to-3D Generation with Parallel Sampling. (arXiv:2311.17082v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17082](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17082)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/alexzhou907/dreampropeller](https://github.com/alexzhou907/dreampropeller)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17082] DreamPropeller: Supercharge Text-to-3D Generation with Parallel Sampling](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17082) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent methods such as Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) and Variational
Score Distillation (VSD) using 2D diffusion models for text-to-3D generation
have demonstrated impressive generation quality. However, the long generation
time of such algorithms significantly degrades the user experience. To tackle
this problem, we propose DreamPropeller, a drop-in acceleration algorithm that
can be wrapped around any existing text-to-3D generation pipeline based on
score distillation. Our framework generalizes Picard iterations, a classical
algorithm for parallel sampling an ODE path, and can account for non-ODE paths
such as momentum-based gradient updates and changes in dimensions during the
optimization process as in many cases of 3D generation. We show that our
algorithm trades parallel compute for wallclock time and empirically achieves
up to 4.7x speedup with a negligible drop in generation quality for all tested
frameworks.
</p>

### Title: PEA-Diffusion: Parameter-Efficient Adapter with Knowledge Distillation in non-English Text-to-Image Generation. (arXiv:2311.17086v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17086](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17086)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/OPPO-Mente-Lab/PEA-Diffusion](https://github.com/OPPO-Mente-Lab/PEA-Diffusion)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17086] PEA-Diffusion: Parameter-Efficient Adapter with Knowledge Distillation in non-English Text-to-Image Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17086) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Text-to-image diffusion models are well-known for their ability to generate
realistic images based on textual prompts. However, the existing works have
predominantly focused on English, lacking support for non-English text-to-image
models. The most commonly used translation methods cannot solve the generation
problem related to language culture, while training from scratch on a specific
language dataset is prohibitively expensive. In this paper, we are inspired to
propose a simple plug-and-play language transfer method based on knowledge
distillation. All we need to do is train a lightweight MLP-like
parameter-efficient adapter (PEA) with only 6M parameters under teacher
knowledge distillation along with a small parallel data corpus. We are
surprised to find that freezing the parameters of UNet can still achieve
remarkable performance on the language-specific prompt evaluation set,
demonstrating that PEA can stimulate the potential generation ability of the
original UNet. Additionally, it closely approaches the performance of the
English text-to-image model on a general prompt evaluation set. Furthermore,
our adapter can be used as a plugin to achieve significant results in
downstream tasks in cross-lingual text-to-image generation. Code will be
available at: https://github.com/OPPO-Mente-Lab/PEA-Diffusion
</p>

### Title: Robust Diffusion GAN using Semi-Unbalanced Optimal Transport. (arXiv:2311.17101v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17101](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17101)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17101] Robust Diffusion GAN using Semi-Unbalanced Optimal Transport](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17101) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Diffusion models, a type of generative model, have demonstrated great
potential for synthesizing highly detailed images. By integrating with GAN,
advanced diffusion models like DDGAN \citep{xiao2022DDGAN} could approach
real-time performance for expansive practical applications. While DDGAN has
effectively addressed the challenges of generative modeling, namely producing
high-quality samples, covering different data modes, and achieving faster
sampling, it remains susceptible to performance drops caused by datasets that
are corrupted with outlier samples. This work introduces a robust training
technique based on semi-unbalanced optimal transport to mitigate the impact of
outliers effectively. Through comprehensive evaluations, we demonstrate that
our robust diffusion GAN (RDGAN) outperforms vanilla DDGAN in terms of the
aforementioned generative modeling criteria, i.e., image quality, mode coverage
of distribution, and inference speed, and exhibits improved robustness when
dealing with both clean and corrupted datasets.
</p>

### Title: Animate Anyone: Consistent and Controllable Image-to-Video Synthesis for Character Animation. (arXiv:2311.17117v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17117](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17117)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17117] Animate Anyone: Consistent and Controllable Image-to-Video Synthesis for Character Animation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17117) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Character Animation aims to generating character videos from still images
through driving signals. Currently, diffusion models have become the mainstream
in visual generation research, owing to their robust generative capabilities.
However, challenges persist in the realm of image-to-video, especially in
character animation, where temporally maintaining consistency with detailed
information from character remains a formidable problem. In this paper, we
leverage the power of diffusion models and propose a novel framework tailored
for character animation. To preserve consistency of intricate appearance
features from reference image, we design ReferenceNet to merge detail features
via spatial attention. To ensure controllability and continuity, we introduce
an efficient pose guider to direct character's movements and employ an
effective temporal modeling approach to ensure smooth inter-frame transitions
between video frames. By expanding the training data, our approach can animate
arbitrary characters, yielding superior results in character animation compared
to other image-to-video methods. Furthermore, we evaluate our method on
benchmarks for fashion video and human dance synthesis, achieving
state-of-the-art results.
</p>

### Title: ConTex-Human: Free-View Rendering of Human from a Single Image with Texture-Consistent Synthesis. (arXiv:2311.17123v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17123](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17123)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17123] ConTex-Human: Free-View Rendering of Human from a Single Image with Texture-Consistent Synthesis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17123) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In this work, we propose a method to address the challenge of rendering a 3D
human from a single image in a free-view manner. Some existing approaches could
achieve this by using generalizable pixel-aligned implicit fields to
reconstruct a textured mesh of a human or by employing a 2D diffusion model as
guidance with the Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) method, to lift the 2D
image into 3D space. However, a generalizable implicit field often results in
an over-smooth texture field, while the SDS method tends to lead to a
texture-inconsistent novel view with the input image. In this paper, we
introduce a texture-consistent back view synthesis module that could transfer
the reference image content to the back view through depth and text-guided
attention injection. Moreover, to alleviate the color distortion that occurs in
the side region, we propose a visibility-aware patch consistency regularization
for texture mapping and refinement combined with the synthesized back view
texture. With the above techniques, we could achieve high-fidelity and
texture-consistent human rendering from a single image. Experiments conducted
on both real and synthetic data demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and
show that our approach outperforms previous baseline methods.
</p>

### Title: Reason out Your Layout: Evoking the Layout Master from Large Language Models for Text-to-Image Synthesis. (arXiv:2311.17126v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17126](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17126)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17126] Reason out Your Layout: Evoking the Layout Master from Large Language Models for Text-to-Image Synthesis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17126) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent advancements in text-to-image (T2I) generative models have shown
remarkable capabilities in producing diverse and imaginative visuals based on
text prompts. Despite the advancement, these diffusion models sometimes
struggle to translate the semantic content from the text into images entirely.
While conditioning on the layout has shown to be effective in improving the
compositional ability of T2I diffusion models, they typically require manual
layout input. In this work, we introduce a novel approach to improving T2I
diffusion models using Large Language Models (LLMs) as layout generators. Our
method leverages the Chain-of-Thought prompting of LLMs to interpret text and
generate spatially reasonable object layouts. The generated layout is then used
to enhance the generated images' composition and spatial accuracy. Moreover, we
propose an efficient adapter based on a cross-attention mechanism, which
explicitly integrates the layout information into the stable diffusion models.
Our experiments demonstrate significant improvements in image quality and
layout accuracy, showcasing the potential of LLMs in augmenting generative
image models.
</p>

### Title: Self-Discovering Interpretable Diffusion Latent Directions for Responsible Text-to-Image Generation. (arXiv:2311.17216v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17216](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17216)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17216] Self-Discovering Interpretable Diffusion Latent Directions for Responsible Text-to-Image Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17216) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Diffusion-based models have gained significant popularity for text-to-image
generation due to their exceptional image-generation capabilities. A risk with
these models is the potential generation of inappropriate content, such as
biased or harmful images. However, the underlying reasons for generating such
undesired content from the perspective of the diffusion model's internal
representation remain unclear. Previous work interprets vectors in an
interpretable latent space of diffusion models as semantic concepts. However,
existing approaches cannot discover directions for arbitrary concepts, such as
those related to inappropriate concepts. In this work, we propose a novel
self-supervised approach to find interpretable latent directions for a given
concept. With the discovered vectors, we further propose a simple approach to
mitigate inappropriate generation. Extensive experiments have been conducted to
verify the effectiveness of our mitigation approach, namely, for fair
generation, safe generation, and responsible text-enhancing generation.
</p>

### Title: SceneTex: High-Quality Texture Synthesis for Indoor Scenes via Diffusion Priors. (arXiv:2311.17261v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17261](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17261)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17261] SceneTex: High-Quality Texture Synthesis for Indoor Scenes via Diffusion Priors](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17261) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We propose SceneTex, a novel method for effectively generating high-quality
and style-consistent textures for indoor scenes using depth-to-image diffusion
priors. Unlike previous methods that either iteratively warp 2D views onto a
mesh surface or distillate diffusion latent features without accurate geometric
and style cues, SceneTex formulates the texture synthesis task as an
optimization problem in the RGB space where style and geometry consistency are
properly reflected. At its core, SceneTex proposes a multiresolution texture
field to implicitly encode the mesh appearance. We optimize the target texture
via a score-distillation-based objective function in respective RGB renderings.
To further secure the style consistency across views, we introduce a
cross-attention decoder to predict the RGB values by cross-attending to the
pre-sampled reference locations in each instance. SceneTex enables various and
accurate texture synthesis for 3D-FRONT scenes, demonstrating significant
improvements in visual quality and prompt fidelity over the prior texture
generation methods.
</p>

### Title: VideoAssembler: Identity-Consistent Video Generation with Reference Entities using Diffusion Model. (arXiv:2311.17338v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17338](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17338)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17338] VideoAssembler: Identity-Consistent Video Generation with Reference Entities using Diffusion Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17338) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Identity-consistent video generation seeks to synthesize videos that are
guided by both textual prompts and reference images of entities. Current
approaches typically utilize cross-attention layers to integrate the appearance
of the entity, which predominantly captures semantic attributes, resulting in
compromised fidelity of entities. Moreover, these methods necessitate iterative
fine-tuning for each new entity encountered, thereby limiting their
applicability. To address these challenges, we introduce VideoAssembler, a
novel end-to-end framework for identity-consistent video generation that can
conduct inference directly when encountering new entities. VideoAssembler is
adept at producing videos that are not only flexible with respect to the input
reference entities but also responsive to textual conditions. Additionally, by
modulating the quantity of input images for the entity, VideoAssembler enables
the execution of tasks ranging from image-to-video generation to sophisticated
video editing. VideoAssembler comprises two principal components: the Reference
Entity Pyramid (REP) encoder and the Entity-Prompt Attention Fusion (EPAF)
module. The REP encoder is designed to infuse comprehensive appearance details
into the denoising stages of the stable diffusion model. Concurrently, the EPAF
module is utilized to integrate text-aligned features effectively. Furthermore,
to mitigate the challenge of scarce data, we present a methodology for the
preprocessing of training data. Our evaluation of the VideoAssembler framework
on the UCF-101, MSR-VTT, and DAVIS datasets indicates that it achieves good
performances in both quantitative and qualitative analyses (346.84 in FVD and
48.01 in IS on UCF-101). Our project page is at
https://videoassembler.github.io/videoassembler.
</p>

### Title: DifFlow3D: Toward Robust Uncertainty-Aware Scene Flow Estimation with Diffusion Model. (arXiv:2311.17456v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17456](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17456)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17456] DifFlow3D: Toward Robust Uncertainty-Aware Scene Flow Estimation with Diffusion Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17456) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Scene flow estimation, which aims to predict per-point 3D displacements of
dynamic scenes, is a fundamental task in the computer vision field. However,
previous works commonly suffer from unreliable correlation caused by locally
constrained searching ranges, and struggle with accumulated inaccuracy arising
from the coarse-to-fine structure. To alleviate these problems, we propose a
novel uncertainty-aware scene flow estimation network (DifFlow3D) with the
diffusion probabilistic model. Iterative diffusion-based refinement is designed
to enhance the correlation robustness and resilience to challenging cases,
e.g., dynamics, noisy inputs, repetitive patterns, etc. To restrain the
generation diversity, three key flow-related features are leveraged as
conditions in our diffusion model. Furthermore, we also develop an uncertainty
estimation module within diffusion to evaluate the reliability of estimated
scene flow. Our DifFlow3D achieves state-of-the-art performance, with 6.7\% and
19.1\% EPE3D reduction respectively on FlyingThings3D and KITTI 2015 datasets.
Notably, our method achieves an unprecedented millimeter-level accuracy
(0.0089m in EPE3D) on the KITTI dataset. Additionally, our diffusion-based
refinement paradigm can be readily integrated as a plug-and-play module into
existing scene flow networks, significantly increasing their estimation
accuracy. Codes will be released later.
</p>

### Title: When StyleGAN Meets Stable Diffusion: a $\mathscr{W}_+$ Adapter for Personalized Image Generation. (arXiv:2311.17461v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17461](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17461)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/csxmli2016/w-plus-adapter](https://github.com/csxmli2016/w-plus-adapter)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17461] When StyleGAN Meets Stable Diffusion: a $\mathscr{W}_+$ Adapter for Personalized Image Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17461) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Text-to-image diffusion models have remarkably excelled in producing diverse,
high-quality, and photo-realistic images. This advancement has spurred a
growing interest in incorporating specific identities into generated content.
Most current methods employ an inversion approach to embed a target visual
concept into the text embedding space using a single reference image. However,
the newly synthesized faces either closely resemble the reference image in
terms of facial attributes, such as expression, or exhibit a reduced capacity
for identity preservation. Text descriptions intended to guide the facial
attributes of the synthesized face may fall short, owing to the intricate
entanglement of identity information with identity-irrelevant facial attributes
derived from the reference image. To address these issues, we present the novel
use of the extended StyleGAN embedding space $\mathcal{W}_+$, to achieve
enhanced identity preservation and disentanglement for diffusion models. By
aligning this semantically meaningful human face latent space with
text-to-image diffusion models, we succeed in maintaining high fidelity in
identity preservation, coupled with the capacity for semantic editing.
Additionally, we propose new training objectives to balance the influences of
both prompt and identity conditions, ensuring that the identity-irrelevant
background remains unaffected during facial attribute modifications. Extensive
experiments reveal that our method adeptly generates personalized text-to-image
outputs that are not only compatible with prompt descriptions but also amenable
to common StyleGAN editing directions in diverse settings. Our source code will
be available at \url{https://github.com/csxmli2016/w-plus-adapter}.
</p>

### Title: Non-Visible Light Data Synthesis and Application: A Case Study for Synthetic Aperture Radar Imagery. (arXiv:2311.17486v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17486](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17486)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17486] Non-Visible Light Data Synthesis and Application: A Case Study for Synthetic Aperture Radar Imagery](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17486) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We explore the "hidden" ability of large-scale pre-trained image generation
models, such as Stable Diffusion and Imagen, in non-visible light domains,
taking Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data for a case study. Due to the
inherent challenges in capturing satellite data, acquiring ample SAR training
samples is infeasible. For instance, for a particular category of ship in the
open sea, we can collect only few-shot SAR images which are too limited to
derive effective ship recognition models. If large-scale models pre-trained
with regular images can be adapted to generating novel SAR images, the problem
is solved. In preliminary study, we found that fine-tuning these models with
few-shot SAR images is not working, as the models can not capture the two
primary differences between SAR and regular images: structure and modality. To
address this, we propose a 2-stage low-rank adaptation method, and we call it
2LoRA. In the first stage, the model is adapted using aerial-view regular image
data (whose structure matches SAR), followed by the second stage where the base
model from the first stage is further adapted using SAR modality data.
Particularly in the second stage, we introduce a novel prototype LoRA (pLoRA),
as an improved version of 2LoRA, to resolve the class imbalance problem in SAR
datasets. For evaluation, we employ the resulting generation model to
synthesize additional SAR data. This augmentation, when integrated into the
training process of SAR classification as well as segmentation models, yields
notably improved performance for minor classes
</p>

### Title: MMA-Diffusion: MultiModal Attack on Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2311.17516v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17516](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17516)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17516] MMA-Diffusion: MultiModal Attack on Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17516) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, Text-to-Image (T2I) models have seen remarkable
advancements, gaining widespread adoption. However, this progress has
inadvertently opened avenues for potential misuse, particularly in generating
inappropriate or Not-Safe-For-Work (NSFW) content. Our work introduces
MMA-Diffusion, a framework that presents a significant and realistic threat to
the security of T2I models by effectively circumventing current defensive
measures in both open-source models and commercial online services. Unlike
previous approaches, MMA-Diffusion leverages both textual and visual modalities
to bypass safeguards like prompt filters and post-hoc safety checkers, thus
exposing and highlighting the vulnerabilities in existing defense mechanisms.
</p>

### Title: HiDiffusion: Unlocking High-Resolution Creativity and Efficiency in Low-Resolution Trained Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2311.17528v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17528](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17528)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17528] HiDiffusion: Unlocking High-Resolution Creativity and Efficiency in Low-Resolution Trained Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17528) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We introduce HiDiffusion, a tuning-free framework comprised of
Resolution-Aware U-Net (RAU-Net) and Modified Shifted Window Multi-head
Self-Attention (MSW-MSA) to enable pretrained large text-to-image diffusion
models to efficiently generate high-resolution images (e.g. 1024$\times$1024)
that surpass the training image resolution. Pretrained diffusion models
encounter unreasonable object duplication in generating images beyond the
training image resolution. We attribute it to the mismatch between the feature
map size of high-resolution images and the receptive field of U-Net's
convolution. To address this issue, we propose a simple yet scalable method
named RAU-Net. RAU-Net dynamically adjusts the feature map size to match the
convolution's receptive field in the deep block of U-Net. Another obstacle in
high-resolution synthesis is the slow inference speed of U-Net. Our
observations reveal that the global self-attention in the top block, which
exhibits locality, however, consumes the majority of computational resources.
To tackle this issue, we propose MSW-MSA. Unlike previous window attention
mechanisms, our method uses a much larger window size and dynamically shifts
windows to better accommodate diffusion models. Extensive experiments
demonstrate that our HiDiffusion can scale diffusion models to generate
1024$\times$1024, 2048$\times$2048, or even 4096$\times$4096 resolution images,
while simultaneously reducing inference time by 40\%-60\%, achieving
state-of-the-art performance on high-resolution image synthesis. The most
significant revelation of our work is that a pretrained diffusion model on
low-resolution images is scalable for high-resolution generation without
further tuning. We hope this revelation can provide insights for future
research on the scalability of diffusion models.
</p>

### Title: Smooth Video Synthesis with Noise Constraints on Diffusion Models for One-shot Video Tuning. (arXiv:2311.17536v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17536](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17536)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/spengliang/smoothvideo](https://github.com/spengliang/smoothvideo)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17536] Smooth Video Synthesis with Noise Constraints on Diffusion Models for One-shot Video Tuning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17536) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent one-shot video tuning methods, which fine-tune the network on a
specific video based on pre-trained text-to-image models (e.g., Stable
Diffusion), are popular in the community because of the flexibility. However,
these methods often produce videos marred by incoherence and inconsistency. To
address these limitations, this paper introduces a simple yet effective noise
constraint across video frames. This constraint aims to regulate noise
predictions across their temporal neighbors, resulting in smooth latents. It
can be simply included as a loss term during the training phase. By applying
the loss to existing one-shot video tuning methods, we significantly improve
the overall consistency and smoothness of the generated videos. Furthermore, we
argue that current video evaluation metrics inadequately capture smoothness. To
address this, we introduce a novel metric that considers detailed features and
their temporal dynamics. Experimental results validate the effectiveness of our
approach in producing smoother videos on various one-shot video tuning
baselines. The source codes and video demos are available at
\href{https://github.com/SPengLiang/SmoothVideo}{https://github.com/SPengLiang/SmoothVideo}.
</p>

### Title: Query-Relevant Images Jailbreak Large Multi-Modal Models. (arXiv:2311.17600v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17600](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17600)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17600] Query-Relevant Images Jailbreak Large Multi-Modal Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17600) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Warning: This paper contains examples of harmful language and images, and
reader discretion is recommended. The security concerns surrounding Large
Language Models (LLMs) have been extensively explored, yet the safety of Large
Multi-Modal Models (LMMs) remains understudied. In our study, we present a
novel visual prompt attack that exploits query-relevant images to jailbreak the
open-source LMMs. Our method creates a composite image from one image generated
by diffusion models and another that displays the text as typography, based on
keywords extracted from a malicious query. We show LLMs can be easily attacked
by our approach, even if the employed Large Language Models are safely aligned.
To evaluate the extent of this vulnerability in open-source LMMs, we have
compiled a substantial dataset encompassing 13 scenarios with a total of 5,040
text-image pairs, using our presented attack technique. Our evaluation of 12
cutting-edge LMMs using this dataset shows the vulnerability of existing
multi-modal models on adversarial attacks. This finding underscores the need
for a concerted effort to strengthen and enhance the safety measures of
open-source LMMs against potential malicious exploits. The resource is
available at \href{this https URL}{https://github.com/isXinLiu/MM-SafetyBench}.
</p>

### Title: AnyLens: A Generative Diffusion Model with Any Rendering Lens. (arXiv:2311.17609v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17609](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17609)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17609] AnyLens: A Generative Diffusion Model with Any Rendering Lens](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17609) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>State-of-the-art diffusion models can generate highly realistic images based
on various conditioning like text, segmentation, and depth. However, an
essential aspect often overlooked is the specific camera geometry used during
image capture. The influence of different optical systems on the final scene
appearance is frequently overlooked. This study introduces a framework that
intimately integrates a text-to-image diffusion model with the particular lens
geometry used in image rendering. Our method is based on a per-pixel coordinate
conditioning method, enabling the control over the rendering geometry. Notably,
we demonstrate the manipulation of curvature properties, achieving diverse
visual effects, such as fish-eye, panoramic views, and spherical texturing
using a single diffusion model.
</p>

### Title: Fair Text-to-Image Diffusion via Fair Mapping. (arXiv:2311.17695v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17695](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17695)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17695] Fair Text-to-Image Diffusion via Fair Mapping](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17695) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In this paper, we address the limitations of existing text-to-image diffusion
models in generating demographically fair results when given human-related
descriptions. These models often struggle to disentangle the target language
context from sociocultural biases, resulting in biased image generation. To
overcome this challenge, we propose Fair Mapping, a general, model-agnostic,
and lightweight approach that modifies a pre-trained text-to-image model by
controlling the prompt to achieve fair image generation. One key advantage of
our approach is its high efficiency. The training process only requires
updating a small number of parameters in an additional linear mapping network.
This not only reduces the computational cost but also accelerates the
optimization process. We first demonstrate the issue of bias in generated
results caused by language biases in text-guided diffusion models. By
developing a mapping network that projects language embeddings into an unbiased
space, we enable the generation of relatively balanced demographic results
based on a keyword specified in the prompt. With comprehensive experiments on
face image generation, we show that our method significantly improves image
generation performance when prompted with descriptions related to human faces.
By effectively addressing the issue of bias, we produce more fair and diverse
image outputs. This work contributes to the field of text-to-image generation
by enhancing the ability to generate images that accurately reflect the
intended demographic characteristics specified in the text.
</p>

### Title: Receler: Reliable Concept Erasing of Text-to-Image Diffusion Models via Lightweight Erasers. (arXiv:2311.17717v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17717](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17717)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17717] Receler: Reliable Concept Erasing of Text-to-Image Diffusion Models via Lightweight Erasers](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17717) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Concept erasure in text-to-image diffusion models aims to disable pre-trained
diffusion models from generating images related to a target concept. To perform
reliable concept erasure, the properties of robustness and locality are
desirable. The former refrains the model from producing images associated with
the target concept for any paraphrased or learned prompts, while the latter
preserves the model ability in generating images for non-target concepts. In
this paper, we propose Reliable Concept Erasing via Lightweight Erasers
(Receler), which learns a lightweight Eraser to perform concept erasing and
enhances locality and robustness with the proposed concept-localized
regularization and adversarial prompt learning, respectively. Comprehensive
quantitative and qualitative experiments with various concept prompts verify
the superiority of Receler over the previous erasing methods on the above two
desirable properties.
</p>

### Title: Analyzing and Explaining Image Classifiers via Diffusion Guidance. (arXiv:2311.17833v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17833](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17833)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17833] Analyzing and Explaining Image Classifiers via Diffusion Guidance](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17833) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>While deep learning has led to huge progress in complex image classification
tasks like ImageNet, unexpected failure modes, e.g. via spurious features, call
into question how reliably these classifiers work in the wild. Furthermore, for
safety-critical tasks the black-box nature of their decisions is problematic,
and explanations or at least methods which make decisions plausible are needed
urgently. In this paper, we address these problems by generating images that
optimize a classifier-derived objective using a framework for guided image
generation. We analyze the behavior and decisions of image classifiers by
visual counterfactual explanations (VCEs), detection of systematic mistakes by
analyzing images where classifiers maximally disagree, and visualization of
neurons to verify potential spurious features. In this way, we validate
existing observations, e.g. the shape bias of adversarially robust models, as
well as novel failure modes, e.g. systematic errors of zero-shot CLIP
classifiers, or identify harmful spurious features. Moreover, our VCEs
outperform previous work while being more versatile.
</p>

### Title: SPiC-E : Structural Priors in 3D Diffusion Models using Cross Entity Attention. (arXiv:2311.17834v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17834](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17834)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17834] SPiC-E : Structural Priors in 3D Diffusion Models using Cross Entity Attention](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17834) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We are witnessing rapid progress in automatically generating and manipulating
3D assets due to the availability of pretrained text-image diffusion models.
However, time-consuming optimization procedures are required for synthesizing
each sample, hindering their potential for democratizing 3D content creation.
Conversely, 3D diffusion models now train on million-scale 3D datasets,
yielding high-quality text-conditional 3D samples within seconds. In this work,
we present SPiC-E - a neural network that adds structural guidance to 3D
diffusion models, extending their usage beyond text-conditional generation. At
its core, our framework introduces a cross-entity attention mechanism that
allows for multiple entities (in particular, paired input and guidance 3D
shapes) to interact via their internal representations within the denoising
network. We utilize this mechanism for learning task-specific structural priors
in 3D diffusion models from auxiliary guidance shapes. We show that our
approach supports a variety of applications, including 3D stylization, semantic
shape editing and text-conditional abstraction-to-3D, which transforms
primitive-based abstractions into highly-expressive shapes. Extensive
experiments demonstrate that SPiC-E achieves SOTA performance over these tasks
while often being considerably faster than alternative methods. Importantly,
this is accomplished without tailoring our approach for any specific task.
</p>

### Title: Leveraging Graph Diffusion Models for Network Refinement Tasks. (arXiv:2311.17856v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17856](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17856)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17856] Leveraging Graph Diffusion Models for Network Refinement Tasks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17856) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Most real-world networks are noisy and incomplete samples from an unknown
target distribution. Refining them by correcting corruptions or inferring
unobserved regions typically improves downstream performance. Inspired by the
impressive generative capabilities that have been used to correct corruptions
in images, and the similarities between "in-painting" and filling in missing
nodes and edges conditioned on the observed graph, we propose a novel graph
generative framework, SGDM, which is based on subgraph diffusion. Our framework
not only improves the scalability and fidelity of graph diffusion models, but
also leverages the reverse process to perform novel, conditional generation
tasks. In particular, through extensive empirical analysis and a set of novel
metrics, we demonstrate that our proposed model effectively supports the
following refinement tasks for partially observable networks: T1: denoising
extraneous subgraphs, T2: expanding existing subgraphs and T3: performing
"style" transfer by regenerating a particular subgraph to match the
characteristics of a different node or subgraph.
</p>

## self-supervised
### Title: Self-Supervised Learning of Whole and Component-Based Semantic Representations for Person Re-Identification. (arXiv:2311.17074v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17074](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17074)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17074] Self-Supervised Learning of Whole and Component-Based Semantic Representations for Person Re-Identification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17074) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Interactive Segmentation Models (ISMs) like the Segment Anything Model have
significantly improved various computer vision tasks, yet their application to
Person Re-identification (ReID) remains limited. On the other hand, existing
semantic pre-training models for ReID often have limitations like predefined
parsing ranges or coarse semantics. Additionally, ReID and Clothes-Changing
ReID (CC-ReID) are usually treated separately due to their different domains.
This paper investigates whether utilizing precise human-centric semantic
representation can boost the ReID performance and improve the generalization
among various ReID tasks. We propose SemReID, a self-supervised ReID model that
leverages ISMs for adaptive part-based semantic extraction, contributing to the
improvement of ReID performance. SemReID additionally refines its semantic
representation through techniques such as image masking and KoLeo
regularization. Evaluation across three types of ReID datasets -- standard
ReID, CC-ReID, and unconstrained ReID -- demonstrates superior performance
compared to state-of-the-art methods. In addition, recognizing the scarcity of
large person datasets with fine-grained semantics, we introduce the novel
LUPerson-Part dataset to assist ReID methods in acquiring the fine-grained part
semantics for robust performance.
</p>

### Title: BIM: Block-Wise Self-Supervised Learning with Masked Image Modeling. (arXiv:2311.17218v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17218](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17218)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17218] BIM: Block-Wise Self-Supervised Learning with Masked Image Modeling](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17218) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Like masked language modeling (MLM) in natural language processing, masked
image modeling (MIM) aims to extract valuable insights from image patches to
enhance the feature extraction capabilities of the underlying deep neural
network (DNN). Contrasted with other training paradigms like supervised
learning and unsupervised contrastive learning, masked image modeling (MIM)
pretraining typically demands significant computational resources in order to
manage large training data batches (e.g., 4096). The significant memory and
computation requirements pose a considerable challenge to its broad adoption.
To mitigate this, we introduce a novel learning framework,
termed~\textit{Block-Wise Masked Image Modeling} (BIM). This framework involves
decomposing the MIM tasks into several sub-tasks with independent computation
patterns, resulting in block-wise back-propagation operations instead of the
traditional end-to-end approach. Our proposed BIM maintains superior
performance compared to conventional MIM while greatly reducing peak memory
consumption. Moreover, BIM naturally enables the concurrent training of
numerous DNN backbones of varying depths. This leads to the creation of
multiple trained DNN backbones, each tailored to different hardware platforms
with distinct computing capabilities. This approach significantly reduces
computational costs in comparison with training each DNN backbone individually.
Our framework offers a promising solution for resource constrained training of
MIM.
</p>

### Title: Continual Self-supervised Learning: Towards Universal Multi-modal Medical Data Representation Learning. (arXiv:2311.17597v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17597](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17597)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17597] Continual Self-supervised Learning: Towards Universal Multi-modal Medical Data Representation Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17597) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Self-supervised learning is an efficient pre-training method for medical
image analysis. However, current research is mostly confined to
specific-modality data pre-training, consuming considerable time and resources
without achieving universality across different modalities. A straightforward
solution is combining all modality data for joint self-supervised pre-training,
which poses practical challenges. Firstly, our experiments reveal conflicts in
representation learning as the number of modalities increases. Secondly,
multi-modal data collected in advance cannot cover all real-world scenarios. In
this paper, we reconsider versatile self-supervised learning from the
perspective of continual learning and propose MedCoSS, a continuous
self-supervised learning approach for multi-modal medical data. Unlike joint
self-supervised learning, MedCoSS assigns different modality data to different
training stages, forming a multi-stage pre-training process. To balance modal
conflicts and prevent catastrophic forgetting, we propose a rehearsal-based
continual learning method. We introduce the k-means sampling strategy to retain
data from previous modalities and rehearse it when learning new modalities.
Instead of executing the pretext task on buffer data, a feature distillation
strategy and an intra-modal mixup strategy are applied to these data for
knowledge retention. We conduct continuous self-supervised pre-training on a
large-scale multi-modal unlabeled dataset, including clinical reports, X-rays,
CT scans, MRI scans, and pathological images. Experimental results demonstrate
MedCoSS's exceptional generalization ability across nine downstream datasets
and its significant scalability in integrating new modality data. Code and
pre-trained weight are available at https://github.com/yeerwen/MedCoSS.
</p>

### Title: Single-Cell Clustering via Dual-Graph Alignment. (arXiv:2311.17104v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17104](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17104)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17104] Single-Cell Clustering via Dual-Graph Alignment](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17104) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, the field of single-cell RNA sequencing has seen a surge in
the development of clustering methods. These methods enable the identification
of cell subpopulations, thereby facilitating the understanding of tumor
microenvironments. Despite their utility, most existing clustering algorithms
primarily focus on the attribute information provided by the cell matrix or the
network structure between cells, often neglecting the network between genes.
This oversight could lead to loss of information and clustering results that
lack clinical significance. To address this limitation, we develop an advanced
single-cell clustering model incorporating dual-graph alignment, which
integrates gene network information into the clustering process based on
self-supervised and unsupervised optimization. Specifically, we designed a
graph-based autoencoder enhanced by an attention mechanism to effectively
capture relationships between cells. Moreover, we performed the node2vec method
on Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks to derive the gene network
structure and maintained this structure throughout the clustering process. Our
proposed method has been demonstrated to be effective through experimental
results, showcasing its ability to optimize clustering outcomes while
preserving the original associations between cells and genes. This research
contributes to obtaining accurate cell subpopulations and generates clustering
results that more closely resemble real-world biological scenarios. It provides
better insights into the characteristics and distribution of diseased cells,
ultimately building a foundation for early disease diagnosis and treatment.
</p>

### Title: Improving Self-supervised Molecular Representation Learning using Persistent Homology. (arXiv:2311.17327v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17327](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17327)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/luoyk1999/molecular-homology](https://github.com/luoyk1999/molecular-homology)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17327] Improving Self-supervised Molecular Representation Learning using Persistent Homology](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17327) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Self-supervised learning (SSL) has great potential for molecular
representation learning given the complexity of molecular graphs, the large
amounts of unlabelled data available, the considerable cost of obtaining labels
experimentally, and the hence often only small training datasets. The
importance of the topic is reflected in the variety of paradigms and
architectures that have been investigated recently. Yet the differences in
performance seem often minor and are barely understood to date. In this paper,
we study SSL based on persistent homology (PH), a mathematical tool for
modeling topological features of data that persist across multiple scales. It
has several unique features which particularly suit SSL, naturally offering:
different views of the data, stability in terms of distance preservation, and
the opportunity to flexibly incorporate domain knowledge. We (1) investigate an
autoencoder, which shows the general representational power of PH, and (2)
propose a contrastive loss that complements existing approaches. We rigorously
evaluate our approach for molecular property prediction and demonstrate its
particular features in improving the embedding space: after SSL, the
representations are better and offer considerably more predictive power than
the baselines over different probing tasks; our loss increases baseline
performance, sometimes largely; and we often obtain substantial improvements
over very small datasets, a common scenario in practice.
</p>

### Title: Gene-MOE: A Sparsely-gated Framework for Pan-Cancer Genomic Analysis. (arXiv:2311.17401v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17401](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17401)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17401] Gene-MOE: A Sparsely-gated Framework for Pan-Cancer Genomic Analysis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17401) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Analyzing the genomic information from the Pan-Cancer database can help us
understand cancer-related factors and contribute to the cancer diagnosis and
prognosis. However, existing computational methods and deep learning methods
can not effectively find the deep correlations between tens of thousands of
genes, which leads to precision loss. In this paper, we proposed a novel
pretrained model called Gene-MOE to learn the general feature representations
of the Pan-Cancer dataset and transfer the pretrained weights to the downstream
tasks. The Gene-MOE fully exploits the mixture of expert (MOE) layers to learn
rich feature representations of high-dimensional genes. At the same time, we
build a mixture of attention expert (MOAE) model to learn the deep semantic
relationships within genetic features. Finally, we proposed a new
self-supervised pretraining strategy including loss function design, data
enhancement, and optimization strategy to train the Gene-MOE and further
improve the performance for the downstream analysis. We carried out cancer
classification and survival analysis experiments based on the Gene-MOE.
According to the survival analysis results on 14 cancer types, using Gene-MOE
outperformed state-of-the-art models on 12 cancer types. According to the
classification results, the total accuracy of the classification model for 33
cancer classifications reached 95.2\%. Through detailed feature analysis, we
found the Gene-MOE model can learn rich feature representations of
high-dimensional genes.
</p>

### Title: On the Adversarial Robustness of Graph Contrastive Learning Methods. (arXiv:2311.17853v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17853](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17853)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17853] On the Adversarial Robustness of Graph Contrastive Learning Methods](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17853) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Contrastive learning (CL) has emerged as a powerful framework for learning
representations of images and text in a self-supervised manner while enhancing
model robustness against adversarial attacks. More recently, researchers have
extended the principles of contrastive learning to graph-structured data,
giving birth to the field of graph contrastive learning (GCL). However, whether
GCL methods can deliver the same advantages in adversarial robustness as their
counterparts in the image and text domains remains an open question. In this
paper, we introduce a comprehensive robustness evaluation protocol tailored to
assess the robustness of GCL models. We subject these models to adaptive
adversarial attacks targeting the graph structure, specifically in the evasion
scenario. We evaluate node and graph classification tasks using diverse
real-world datasets and attack strategies. With our work, we aim to offer
insights into the robustness of GCL methods and hope to open avenues for
potential future research directions.
</p>

## foundation model
### Title: Improved Prototypical Semi-Supervised Learning with Foundation Models: Prototype Selection, Parametric vMF-SNE Pretraining and Multi-view Pseudolabelling. (arXiv:2311.17093v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17093](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17093)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17093] Improved Prototypical Semi-Supervised Learning with Foundation Models: Prototype Selection, Parametric vMF-SNE Pretraining and Multi-view Pseudolabelling](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17093) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>In this paper we present an improved approach to prototypical semi-supervised
learning for computer vision, in the context of leveraging a frozen foundation
model as the backbone of our neural network. As a general tool, we propose
parametric von-Mises Fisher Stochastic Neighbour Embedding (vMF-SNE) to create
mappings with neural networks between high-dimensional latent spaces that
preserve local structure. This enables us to pretrain the projection head of
our network using the high-quality embeddings of the foundation model with
vMF-SNE. We also propose soft multi-view pseudolabels, where predictions across
multiple views are combined to provide a more reliable supervision signal
compared to a consistency or swapped assignment approach. We demonstrate that
these ideas improve upon P}redicting View-Assignments with Support Samples
(PAWS), a current state-of-the-art semi-supervised learning method, as well as
Robust PAWS (RoPAWS), over a range of benchmarking datasets. We also introduce
simple $k$-means prototype selection, a technique that provides superior
performance to other unsupervised label selection approaches in this context.
These changes improve upon PAWS by an average of +2.9% for CIFAR-10 and +5.7%
for CIFAR-100 with four labels per class, and by +15.2% for DeepWeeds, a
particularly challenging dataset for semi-supervised learning. We also achieve
new state-of-the-art results in semi-supervised learning in this small label
regime for CIFAR-10 - 95.8% (+0.7%) and CIFAR-100 - 76.6% (+12.0%).
</p>

### Title: Parameter Efficient Fine-tuning via Cross Block Orchestration for Segment Anything Model. (arXiv:2311.17112v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17112](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17112)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17112] Parameter Efficient Fine-tuning via Cross Block Orchestration for Segment Anything Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17112) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) is an effective methodology to unleash
the potential of large foundation models in novel scenarios with limited
training data. In the computer vision community, PEFT has shown effectiveness
in image classification, but little research has studied its ability for image
segmentation. Fine-tuning segmentation models usually require a heavier
adjustment of parameters to align the proper projection directions in the
parameter space for new scenarios. This raises a challenge to existing PEFT
algorithms, as they often inject a limited number of individual parameters into
each block, which prevents substantial adjustment of the projection direction
of the parameter space due to the limitation of Hidden Markov Chain along
blocks. In this paper, we equip PEFT with a cross-block orchestration mechanism
to enable the adaptation of the Segment Anything Model (SAM) to various
downstream scenarios. We introduce a novel inter-block communication module,
which integrates a learnable relation matrix to facilitate communication among
different coefficient sets of each PEFT block's parameter space. Moreover, we
propose an intra-block enhancement module, which introduces a linear projection
head whose weights are generated from a hyper-complex layer, further enhancing
the impact of the adjustment of projection directions on the entire parameter
space. Extensive experiments on diverse benchmarks demonstrate that our
proposed approach consistently improves the segmentation performance
significantly on novel scenarios with only around 1K additional parameters.
</p>

### Title: Federated Fine-Tuning of Foundation Models via Probabilistic Masking. (arXiv:2311.17299v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17299](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17299)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17299] Federated Fine-Tuning of Foundation Models via Probabilistic Masking](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17299) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Foundation Models (FMs) have revolutionized machine learning with their
adaptability and high performance across tasks; yet, their integration into
Federated Learning (FL) is challenging due to substantial communication
overhead from their extensive parameterization. Current communication-efficient
FL strategies, such as gradient compression, reduce bitrates to around $1$
bit-per-parameter (bpp). However, these approaches fail to harness the
characteristics of FMs, with their large number of parameters still posing a
challenge to communication efficiency, even at these bitrate regimes. In this
work, we present DeltaMask, a novel method that efficiently fine-tunes FMs in
FL at an ultra-low bitrate, well below 1 bpp. DeltaMask employs stochastic
masking to detect highly effective subnetworks within FMs and leverage
stochasticity and sparsity in client masks to compress updates into a compact
grayscale image using probabilistic filters, deviating from traditional weight
training approaches. Our comprehensive evaluations across various datasets and
architectures demonstrate DeltaMask efficiently achieves bitrates as low as
0.09 bpp, enhancing communication efficiency while maintaining FMs performance,
as measured on 8 datasets and 5 pre-trained models of various network
architectures.
</p>

### Title: One-Shot Open Affordance Learning with Foundation Models. (arXiv:2311.17776v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17776](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17776)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17776] One-Shot Open Affordance Learning with Foundation Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17776) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>We introduce One-shot Open Affordance Learning (OOAL), where a model is
trained with just one example per base object category, but is expected to
identify novel objects and affordances. While vision-language models excel at
recognizing novel objects and scenes, they often struggle to understand finer
levels of granularity such as affordances. To handle this issue, we conduct a
comprehensive analysis of existing foundation models, to explore their inherent
understanding of affordances and assess the potential for data-limited
affordance learning. We then propose a vision-language framework with simple
and effective designs that boost the alignment between visual features and
affordance text embeddings. Experiments on two affordance segmentation
benchmarks show that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art models
with less than 1% of the full training data, and exhibits reasonable
generalization capability on unseen objects and affordances.
</p>

### Title: SoUnD Framework: Analyzing (So)cial Representation in (Un)structured (D)ata. (arXiv:2311.17259v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17259](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17259)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17259] SoUnD Framework: Analyzing (So)cial Representation in (Un)structured (D)ata](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17259) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>The unstructured nature of data used in foundation model development is a
challenge to systematic analyses for making data use and documentation
decisions. From a Responsible AI perspective, these decisions often rely upon
understanding how people are represented in data. We propose a framework
designed to guide analysis of human representation in unstructured data and
identify downstream risks. We apply the framework in two toy examples using the
Common Crawl web text corpus (C4) and LAION-400M. We also propose a set of
hypothetical action steps in service of dataset use, development, and
documentation.
</p>

### Title: Grounding Foundation Models through Federated Transfer Learning: A General Framework. (arXiv:2311.17431v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17431](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17431)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17431] Grounding Foundation Models through Federated Transfer Learning: A General Framework](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17431) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Foundation Models (FMs) such as GPT-4 encoded with vast knowledge and
powerful emergent abilities have achieved remarkable success in various natural
language processing and computer vision tasks. Grounding FMs by adapting them
to domain-specific tasks or augmenting them with domain-specific knowledge
enables us to exploit the full potential of FMs. However, grounding FMs faces
several challenges, stemming primarily from constrained computing resources,
data privacy, model heterogeneity, and model ownership. Federated Transfer
Learning (FTL), the combination of federated learning and transfer learning,
provides promising solutions to address these challenges. In recent years, the
need for grounding FMs leveraging FTL, coined FTL-FM, has arisen strongly in
both academia and industry. Motivated by the strong growth in FTL-FM research
and the potential impact of FTL-FM on industrial applications, we propose an
FTL-FM framework that formulates problems of grounding FMs in the federated
learning setting, construct a detailed taxonomy based on the FTL-FM framework
to categorize state-of-the-art FTL-FM works, and comprehensively overview
FTL-FM works based on the proposed taxonomy. We also establish correspondences
between FTL-FM and conventional phases of adapting FM so that FM practitioners
can align their research works with FTL-FM. In addition, we overview advanced
efficiency-improving and privacy-preserving techniques because efficiency and
privacy are critical concerns in FTL-FM. Last, we discuss opportunities and
future research directions of FTL-FM.
</p>

## generative
### Title: IG Captioner: Information Gain Captioners are Strong Zero-shot Classifiers. (arXiv:2311.17072v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17072](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17072)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17072] IG Captioner: Information Gain Captioners are Strong Zero-shot Classifiers](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17072) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative training has been demonstrated to be powerful for building
visual-language models. However, on zero-shot discriminative benchmarks, there
is still a performance gap between models trained with generative and
discriminative objectives. In this paper, we aim to narrow this gap by
improving the efficacy of generative training on classification tasks, without
any finetuning processes or additional modules.
</p>
<p>Specifically, we focus on narrowing the gap between the generative captioner
and the CLIP classifier. We begin by analysing the predictions made by the
captioner and classifier and observe that the caption generation inherits the
distribution bias from the language model trained with pure text modality,
making it less grounded on the visual signal. To tackle this problem, we
redesign the scoring objective for the captioner to alleviate the
distributional bias and focus on measuring the gain of information brought by
the visual inputs. We further design a generative training objective to match
the evaluation objective. We name our model trained and evaluated from the
novel procedures as Information Gain (IG) captioner. We pretrain the models on
the public Laion-5B dataset and perform a series of discriminative evaluations.
For the zero-shot classification on ImageNet, IG captioner achieves $&gt; 18\%$
improvements over the standard captioner, achieving comparable performances
with the CLIP classifier. IG captioner also demonstrated strong performance on
zero-shot image-text retrieval tasks on MSCOCO and Flickr30K. We hope this
paper inspires further research towards unifying generative and discriminative
training procedures for visual-language models.
</p>

### Title: Generative Data Augmentation Improves Scribble-supervised Semantic Segmentation. (arXiv:2311.17121v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17121](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17121)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17121] Generative Data Augmentation Improves Scribble-supervised Semantic Segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17121) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Recent advances in generative models, such as diffusion models, have made
generating high-quality synthetic images widely accessible. Prior works have
shown that training on synthetic images improves many perception tasks, such as
image classification, object detection, and semantic segmentation. We are the
first to explore generative data augmentations for scribble-supervised semantic
segmentation. We propose a generative data augmentation method that leverages a
ControlNet diffusion model conditioned on semantic scribbles to produce
high-quality training data. However, naive implementations of generative data
augmentations may inadvertently harm the performance of the downstream
segmentor rather than improve it. We leverage classifier-free diffusion
guidance to enforce class consistency and introduce encode ratios to trade off
data diversity for data realism. Using the guidance scale and encode ratio, we
are able to generate a spectrum of high-quality training images. We propose
multiple augmentation schemes and find that these schemes significantly impact
model performance, especially in the low-data regime. Our framework further
reduces the gap between the performance of scribble-supervised segmentation and
that of fully-supervised segmentation. We also show that our framework
significantly improves segmentation performance on small datasets, even
surpassing fully-supervised segmentation.
</p>

### Title: Generative Models: What do they know? Do they know things? Let's find out!. (arXiv:2311.17137v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17137](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17137)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17137] Generative Models: What do they know? Do they know things? Let's find out!](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17137) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative models have been shown to be capable of synthesizing highly
detailed and realistic images. It is natural to suspect that they implicitly
learn to model some image intrinsics such as surface normals, depth, or
shadows. In this paper, we present compelling evidence that generative models
indeed internally produce high-quality scene intrinsic maps. We introduce
Intrinsic LoRA (I LoRA), a universal, plug-and-play approach that transforms
any generative model into a scene intrinsic predictor, capable of extracting
intrinsic scene maps directly from the original generator network without
needing additional decoders or fully fine-tuning the original network. Our
method employs a Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) of key feature maps, with newly
learned parameters that make up less than 0.6% of the total parameters in the
generative model. Optimized with a small set of labeled images, our
model-agnostic approach adapts to various generative architectures, including
Diffusion models, GANs, and Autoregressive models. We show that the scene
intrinsic maps produced by our method compare well with, and in some cases
surpass those generated by leading supervised techniques.
</p>

### Title: Shadows Don't Lie and Lines Can't Bend! Generative Models don't know Projective Geometry...for now. (arXiv:2311.17138v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17138](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17138)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17138] Shadows Don't Lie and Lines Can't Bend! Generative Models don't know Projective Geometry](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17138) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative models can produce impressively realistic images. This paper
demonstrates that generated images have geometric features different from those
of real images. We build a set of collections of generated images, prequalified
to fool simple, signal-based classifiers into believing they are real. We then
show that prequalified generated images can be identified reliably by
classifiers that only look at geometric properties. We use three such
classifiers. All three classifiers are denied access to image pixels, and look
only at derived geometric features. The first classifier looks at the
perspective field of the image, the second looks at lines detected in the
image, and the third looks at relations between detected objects and shadows.
Our procedure detects generated images more reliably than SOTA local signal
based detectors, for images from a number of distinct generators. Saliency maps
suggest that the classifiers can identify geometric problems reliably. We
conclude that current generators cannot reliably reproduce geometric properties
of real images.
</p>

### Title: Generative Hierarchical Temporal Transformer for Hand Action Recognition and Motion Prediction. (arXiv:2311.17366v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17366](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17366)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17366] Generative Hierarchical Temporal Transformer for Hand Action Recognition and Motion Prediction](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17366) #generative`
* Summary: <p>We present a novel framework that concurrently tackles hand action
recognition and 3D future hand motion prediction. While previous works focus on
either recognition or prediction, we propose a generative Transformer VAE
architecture to jointly capture both aspects, facilitating realistic motion
prediction by leveraging the short-term hand motion and long-term action
consistency observed across timestamps.To ensure faithful representation of the
semantic dependency and different temporal granularity of hand pose and action,
our framework is decomposed into two cascaded VAE blocks. The lower pose block
models short-span poses, while the upper action block models long-span action.
These are connected by a mid-level feature that represents sub-second series of
hand poses.Our framework is trained across multiple datasets, where pose and
action blocks are trained separately to fully utilize pose-action annotations
of different qualities. Evaluations show that on multiple datasets, the joint
modeling of recognition and prediction improves over separate solutions, and
the semantic and temporal hierarchy enables long-term pose and action modeling.
</p>

### Title: Talking Head(?) Anime from a Single Image 4: Improved Model and Its Distillation. (arXiv:2311.17409v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17409](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17409)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17409] Talking Head(?) Anime from a Single Image 4: Improved Model and Its Distillation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17409) #generative`
* Summary: <p>We study the problem of creating a character model that can be controlled in
real time from a single image of an anime character. A solution to this problem
would greatly reduce the cost of creating avatars, computer games, and other
interactive applications.
</p>
<p>Talking Head Anime 3 (THA3) is an open source project that attempts to
directly addresses the problem. It takes as input (1) an image of an anime
character's upper body and (2) a 45-dimensional pose vector and outputs a new
image of the same character taking the specified pose. The range of possible
movements is expressive enough for personal avatars and certain types of game
characters. However, the system is too slow to generate animations in real time
on common PCs, and its image quality can be improved.
</p>
<p>In this paper, we improve THA3 in two ways. First, we propose new
architectures for constituent networks that rotate the character's head and
body based on U-Nets with attention that are widely used in modern generative
models. The new architectures consistently yield better image quality than the
THA3 baseline. Nevertheless, they also make the whole system much slower: it
takes up to 150 milliseconds to generate a frame. Second, we propose a
technique to distill the system into a small network (less than 2 MB) that can
generate 512x512 animation frames in real time (under 30 FPS) using consumer
gaming GPUs while keeping the image quality close to that of the full system.
This improvement makes the whole system practical for real-time applications.
</p>

### Title: SyncTalk: The Devil is in the Synchronization for Talking Head Synthesis. (arXiv:2311.17590v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17590](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17590)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/ZiqiaoPeng/SyncTalk](https://github.com/ZiqiaoPeng/SyncTalk)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17590] SyncTalk: The Devil is in the Synchronization for Talking Head Synthesis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17590) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Achieving high synchronization in the synthesis of realistic, speech-driven
talking head videos presents a significant challenge. Traditional Generative
Adversarial Networks (GAN) struggle to maintain consistent facial identity,
while Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) methods, although they can address this
issue, often produce mismatched lip movements, inadequate facial expressions,
and unstable head poses. A lifelike talking head requires synchronized
coordination of subject identity, lip movements, facial expressions, and head
poses. The absence of these synchronizations is a fundamental flaw, leading to
unrealistic and artificial outcomes. To address the critical issue of
synchronization, identified as the "devil" in creating realistic talking heads,
we introduce SyncTalk. This NeRF-based method effectively maintains subject
identity, enhancing synchronization and realism in talking head synthesis.
SyncTalk employs a Face-Sync Controller to align lip movements with speech and
innovatively uses a 3D facial blendshape model to capture accurate facial
expressions. Our Head-Sync Stabilizer optimizes head poses, achieving more
natural head movements. The Portrait-Sync Generator restores hair details and
blends the generated head with the torso for a seamless visual experience.
Extensive experiments and user studies demonstrate that SyncTalk outperforms
state-of-the-art methods in synchronization and realism. We recommend watching
the supplementary video: https://ziqiaopeng.github.io/synctalk
</p>

### Title: ShapeGPT: 3D Shape Generation with A Unified Multi-modal Language Model. (arXiv:2311.17618v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17618](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17618)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17618] ShapeGPT: 3D Shape Generation with A Unified Multi-modal Language Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17618) #generative`
* Summary: <p>The advent of large language models, enabling flexibility through
instruction-driven approaches, has revolutionized many traditional generative
tasks, but large models for 3D data, particularly in comprehensively handling
3D shapes with other modalities, are still under-explored. By achieving
instruction-based shape generations, versatile multimodal generative shape
models can significantly benefit various fields like 3D virtual construction
and network-aided design. In this work, we present ShapeGPT, a shape-included
multi-modal framework to leverage strong pre-trained language models to address
multiple shape-relevant tasks. Specifically, ShapeGPT employs a
word-sentence-paragraph framework to discretize continuous shapes into shape
words, further assembles these words for shape sentences, as well as integrates
shape with instructional text for multi-modal paragraphs. To learn this
shape-language model, we use a three-stage training scheme, including shape
representation, multimodal alignment, and instruction-based generation, to
align shape-language codebooks and learn the intricate correlations among these
modalities. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ShapeGPT achieves comparable
performance across shape-relevant tasks, including text-to-shape,
shape-to-text, shape completion, and shape editing.
</p>

### Title: Variational Bayes image restoration with compressive autoencoders. (arXiv:2311.17744v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17744](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17744)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17744] Variational Bayes image restoration with compressive autoencoders](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17744) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Regularization of inverse problems is of paramount importance in
computational imaging. The ability of neural networks to learn efficient image
representations has been recently exploited to design powerful data-driven
regularizers. While state-of-the-art plug-and-play methods rely on an implicit
regularization provided by neural denoisers, alternative Bayesian approaches
consider Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) estimation in the latent space of a
generative model, thus with an explicit regularization. However,
state-of-the-art deep generative models require a huge amount of training data
compared to denoisers. Besides, their complexity hampers the optimization of
the latent MAP. In this work, we propose to use compressive autoencoders for
latent estimation. These networks, which can be seen as variational
autoencoders with a flexible latent prior, are smaller and easier to train than
state-of-the-art generative models. We then introduce the Variational Bayes
Latent Estimation (VBLE) algorithm, which performs this estimation within the
framework of variational inference. This allows for fast and easy (approximate)
posterior sampling. Experimental results on image datasets BSD and FFHQ
demonstrate that VBLE reaches similar performance than state-of-the-art
plug-and-play methods, while being able to quantify uncertainties faster than
other existing posterior sampling techniques.
</p>

### Title: Gaussian Shell Maps for Efficient 3D Human Generation. (arXiv:2311.17857v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17857](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17857)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17857] Gaussian Shell Maps for Efficient 3D Human Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17857) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Efficient generation of 3D digital humans is important in several industries,
including virtual reality, social media, and cinematic production. 3D
generative adversarial networks (GANs) have demonstrated state-of-the-art
(SOTA) quality and diversity for generated assets. Current 3D GAN
architectures, however, typically rely on volume representations, which are
slow to render, thereby hampering the GAN training and requiring
multi-view-inconsistent 2D upsamplers. Here, we introduce Gaussian Shell Maps
(GSMs) as a framework that connects SOTA generator network architectures with
emerging 3D Gaussian rendering primitives using an articulable multi
shell--based scaffold. In this setting, a CNN generates a 3D texture stack with
features that are mapped to the shells. The latter represent inflated and
deflated versions of a template surface of a digital human in a canonical body
pose. Instead of rasterizing the shells directly, we sample 3D Gaussians on the
shells whose attributes are encoded in the texture features. These Gaussians
are efficiently and differentiably rendered. The ability to articulate the
shells is important during GAN training and, at inference time, to deform a
body into arbitrary user-defined poses. Our efficient rendering scheme bypasses
the need for view-inconsistent upsamplers and achieves high-quality multi-view
consistent renderings at a native resolution of $512 \times 512$ pixels. We
demonstrate that GSMs successfully generate 3D humans when trained on
single-view datasets, including SHHQ and DeepFashion.
</p>

### Title: Are we going MAD? Benchmarking Multi-Agent Debate between Language Models for Medical Q&A. (arXiv:2311.17371v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17371](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17371)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17371] Are we going MAD? Benchmarking Multi-Agent Debate between Language Models for Medical Q&A](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17371) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) underscore their
potential for responding to medical inquiries. However, ensuring that
generative agents provide accurate and reliable answers remains an ongoing
challenge. In this context, multi-agent debate (MAD) has emerged as a prominent
strategy for enhancing the truthfulness of LLMs. In this work, we provide a
comprehensive benchmark of MAD strategies for medical Q&amp;A, along with
open-source implementations. This explores the effective utilization of various
strategies including the trade-offs between cost, time, and accuracy. We build
upon these insights to provide a novel debate-prompting strategy based on agent
agreement that outperforms previously published strategies on medical Q&amp;A
tasks.
</p>

### Title: Deepfakes, Misinformation, and Disinformation in the Era of Frontier AI, Generative AI, and Large AI Models. (arXiv:2311.17394v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17394](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17394)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17394] Deepfakes, Misinformation, and Disinformation in the Era of Frontier AI, Generative AI, and Large AI Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17394) #generative`
* Summary: <p>With the advent of sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) technologies,
the proliferation of deepfakes and the spread of m/disinformation have emerged
as formidable threats to the integrity of information ecosystems worldwide.
This paper provides an overview of the current literature. Within the frontier
AI's crucial application in developing defense mechanisms for detecting
deepfakes, we highlight the mechanisms through which generative AI based on
large models (LM-based GenAI) craft seemingly convincing yet fabricated
contents. We explore the multifaceted implications of LM-based GenAI on
society, politics, and individual privacy violations, underscoring the urgent
need for robust defense strategies. To address these challenges, in this study,
we introduce an integrated framework that combines advanced detection
algorithms, cross-platform collaboration, and policy-driven initiatives to
mitigate the risks associated with AI-Generated Content (AIGC). By leveraging
multi-modal analysis, digital watermarking, and machine learning-based
authentication techniques, we propose a defense mechanism adaptable to AI
capabilities of ever-evolving nature. Furthermore, the paper advocates for a
global consensus on the ethical usage of GenAI and implementing cyber-wellness
educational programs to enhance public awareness and resilience against
m/disinformation. Our findings suggest that a proactive and collaborative
approach involving technological innovation and regulatory oversight is
essential for safeguarding netizens while interacting with cyberspace against
the insidious effects of deepfakes and GenAI-enabled m/disinformation
campaigns.
</p>

### Title: Learning to Simulate: Generative Metamodeling via Quantile Regression. (arXiv:2311.17797v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17797](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17797)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17797] Learning to Simulate: Generative Metamodeling via Quantile Regression](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17797) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Stochastic simulation models, while effective in capturing the dynamics of
complex systems, are often too slow to run for real-time decision-making.
Metamodeling techniques are widely used to learn the relationship between a
summary statistic of the outputs (e.g., the mean or quantile) and the inputs of
the simulator, so that it can be used in real time. However, this methodology
requires the knowledge of an appropriate summary statistic in advance, making
it inflexible for many practical situations. In this paper, we propose a new
metamodeling concept, called generative metamodeling, which aims to construct a
"fast simulator of the simulator". This technique can generate random outputs
substantially faster than the original simulation model, while retaining an
approximately equal conditional distribution given the same inputs. Once
constructed, a generative metamodel can instantaneously generate a large amount
of random outputs as soon as the inputs are specified, thereby facilitating the
immediate computation of any summary statistic for real-time decision-making.
Furthermore, we propose a new algorithm -- quantile-regression-based generative
metamodeling (QRGMM) -- and study its convergence and rate of convergence.
Extensive numerical experiments are conducted to investigate the empirical
performance of QRGMM, compare it with other state-of-the-art generative
algorithms, and demonstrate its usefulness in practical real-time
decision-making.
</p>

## anomaly
### Title: Anonymous Jamming Detection in 5G with Bayesian Network Model Based Inference Analysis. (arXiv:2311.17097v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17097](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17097)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17097] Anonymous Jamming Detection in 5G with Bayesian Network Model Based Inference Analysis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17097) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Jamming and intrusion detection are critical in 5G research, aiming to
maintain reliability, prevent user experience degradation, and avoid
infrastructure failure. This paper introduces an anonymous jamming detection
model for 5G based on signal parameters from the protocol stacks. The system
uses supervised and unsupervised learning for real-time, high-accuracy
detection of jamming, including unknown types. Supervised models reach an AUC
of 0.964 to 1, compared to LSTM models with an AUC of 0.923 to 1. However, the
need for data annotation limits the supervised approach. To address this, an
unsupervised auto-encoder-based anomaly detection is presented with an AUC of
0.987. The approach is resistant to adversarial training samples. For
transparency and domain knowledge injection, a Bayesian network-based causation
analysis is introduced.
</p>

### Title: Utilizing Model Residuals to Identify Rental Properties of Interest: The Price Anomaly Score (PAS) and Its Application to Real-time Data in Manhattan. (arXiv:2311.17287v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17287](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17287)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17287] Utilizing Model Residuals to Identify Rental Properties of Interest: The Price Anomaly Score (PAS) and Its Application to Real-time Data in Manhattan](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17287) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Understanding whether a property is priced fairly hinders buyers and sellers
since they usually do not have an objective viewpoint of the price distribution
for the overall market of their interest. Drawing from data collected of all
possible available properties for rent in Manhattan as of September 2023, this
paper aims to strengthen our understanding of model residuals; specifically on
machine learning models which generalize for a majority of the distribution of
a well-proportioned dataset. Most models generally perceive deviations from
predicted values as mere inaccuracies, however this paper proposes a different
vantage point: when generalizing to at least 75\% of the data-set, the
remaining deviations reveal significant insights. To harness these insights, we
introduce the Price Anomaly Score (PAS), a metric capable of capturing
boundaries between irregularly predicted prices. By combining relative pricing
discrepancies with statistical significance, the Price Anomaly Score (PAS)
offers a multifaceted view of rental valuations. This metric allows experts to
identify overpriced or underpriced properties within a dataset by aggregating
PAS values, then fine-tuning upper and lower boundaries to any threshold to set
indicators of choice.
</p>

## in-context
### Title: CLiC: Concept Learning in Context. (arXiv:2311.17083v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17083](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17083)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17083] CLiC: Concept Learning in Context](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17083) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>This paper addresses the challenge of learning a local visual pattern of an
object from one image, and generating images depicting objects with that
pattern. Learning a localized concept and placing it on an object in a target
image is a nontrivial task, as the objects may have different orientations and
shapes. Our approach builds upon recent advancements in visual concept
learning. It involves acquiring a visual concept (e.g., an ornament) from a
source image and subsequently applying it to an object (e.g., a chair) in a
target image. Our key idea is to perform in-context concept learning, acquiring
the local visual concept within the broader context of the objects they belong
to. To localize the concept learning, we employ soft masks that contain both
the concept within the mask and the surrounding image area. We demonstrate our
approach through object generation within an image, showcasing plausible
embedding of in-context learned concepts. We also introduce methods for
directing acquired concepts to specific locations within target images,
employing cross-attention mechanisms, and establishing correspondences between
source and target objects. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated
through quantitative and qualitative experiments, along with comparisons
against baseline techniques.
</p>

### Title: MM-Narrator: Narrating Long-form Videos with Multimodal In-Context Learning. (arXiv:2311.17435v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17435](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17435)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17435] MM-Narrator: Narrating Long-form Videos with Multimodal In-Context Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17435) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>We present MM-Narrator, a novel system leveraging GPT-4 with multimodal
in-context learning for the generation of audio descriptions (AD). Unlike
previous methods that primarily focused on downstream fine-tuning with short
video clips, MM-Narrator excels in generating precise audio descriptions for
videos of extensive lengths, even beyond hours, in an autoregressive manner.
This capability is made possible by the proposed memory-augmented generation
process, which effectively utilizes both the short-term textual context and
long-term visual memory through an efficient register-and-recall mechanism.
These contextual memories compile pertinent past information, including
storylines and character identities, ensuring an accurate tracking and
depicting of story-coherent and character-centric audio descriptions.
Maintaining the training-free design of MM-Narrator, we further propose a
complexity-based demonstration selection strategy to largely enhance its
multi-step reasoning capability via few-shot multimodal in-context learning
(MM-ICL). Experimental results on MAD-eval dataset demonstrate that MM-Narrator
consistently outperforms both the existing fine-tuning-based approaches and
LLM-based approaches in most scenarios, as measured by standard evaluation
metrics. Additionally, we introduce the first segment-based evaluator for
recurrent text generation. Empowered by GPT-4, this evaluator comprehensively
reasons and marks AD generation performance in various extendable dimensions.
</p>

### Title: VIM: Probing Multimodal Large Language Models for Visual Embedded Instruction Following. (arXiv:2311.17647v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17647](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17647)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17647] VIM: Probing Multimodal Large Language Models for Visual Embedded Instruction Following](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17647) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>We introduce VISUAL EMBEDDED INSTRUCTION (VIM), a new framework designed to
evaluate the visual instruction following capability of Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLMs). As illustrated in Figure 2, VIM challenges the MLLMs
by embedding the instructions into the visual scenes, demanding strong visual
interpretative skills for instruction following. We adapt VIM to various
benchmarks, including VQAv2, MME, MM-Vet, and RefCOCO series, compose a VIM
bench, and probe diverse MLLMs across three distinct in-context learning
settings: Zero Shot, One Shot, and Pair Shot. We observe that there is a
significant performance disparity between the open-source MLLMs and GPT-4V,
implying that their proficiency in visual instruction comprehension is not up
to par. Our results highlight a promising direction for the enhancement of
MLLMs capabilities on instruction following. We aim VIM to serve as a useful
norm for advancing the state of the art and driving further progress in the
field.
</p>

### Title: Evaluating VLMs for Score-Based, Multi-Probe Annotation of 3D Objects. (arXiv:2311.17851v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17851](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17851)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17851] Evaluating VLMs for Score-Based, Multi-Probe Annotation of 3D Objects](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17851) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Unlabeled 3D objects present an opportunity to leverage pretrained vision
language models (VLMs) on a range of annotation tasks -- from describing object
semantics to physical properties. An accurate response must take into account
the full appearance of the object in 3D, various ways of phrasing the
question/prompt, and changes in other factors that affect the response. We
present a method to marginalize over any factors varied across VLM queries,
utilizing the VLM's scores for sampled responses. We first show that this
probabilistic aggregation can outperform a language model (e.g., GPT4) for
summarization, for instance avoiding hallucinations when there are contrasting
details between responses. Secondly, we show that aggregated annotations are
useful for prompt-chaining; they help improve downstream VLM predictions (e.g.,
of object material when the object's type is specified as an auxiliary input in
the prompt). Such auxiliary inputs allow ablating and measuring the
contribution of visual reasoning over language-only reasoning. Using these
evaluations, we show how VLMs can approach, without additional training or
in-context learning, the quality of human-verified type and material
annotations on the large-scale Objaverse dataset.
</p>

## memory
### Title: AdaFocus: Towards End-to-end Weakly Supervised Learning for Long-Video Action Understanding. (arXiv:2311.17118v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17118](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17118)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17118] AdaFocus: Towards End-to-end Weakly Supervised Learning for Long-Video Action Understanding](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17118) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Developing end-to-end models for long-video action understanding tasks
presents significant computational and memory challenges. Existing works
generally build models on long-video features extracted by off-the-shelf action
recognition models, which are trained on short-video datasets in different
domains, making the extracted features suffer domain discrepancy. To avoid
this, action recognition models can be end-to-end trained on clips, which are
trimmed from long videos and labeled using action interval annotations. Such
fully supervised annotations are expensive to collect. Thus, a weakly
supervised method is needed for long-video action understanding at scale. Under
the weak supervision setting, action labels are provided for the whole video
without precise start and end times of the action clip. To this end, we propose
an AdaFocus framework. AdaFocus estimates the spike-actionness and temporal
positions of actions, enabling it to adaptively focus on action clips that
facilitate better training without the need for precise annotations.
Experiments on three long-video datasets show its effectiveness. Remarkably, on
two of datasets, models trained with AdaFocus under weak supervision outperform
those trained under full supervision. Furthermore, we form a weakly supervised
feature extraction pipeline with our AdaFocus, which enables significant
improvements on three long-video action understanding tasks.
</p>

### Title: End-to-End Temporal Action Detection with 1B Parameters Across 1000 Frames. (arXiv:2311.17241v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17241](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17241)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17241] End-to-End Temporal Action Detection with 1B Parameters Across 1000 Frames](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17241) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Recently, temporal action detection (TAD) has seen significant performance
improvement with end-to-end training. However, due to the memory bottleneck,
only models with limited scales and limited data volumes can afford end-to-end
training, which inevitably restricts TAD performance. In this paper, we reduce
the memory consumption for end-to-end training, and manage to scale up the TAD
backbone to 1 billion parameters and the input video to 1,536 frames, leading
to significant detection performance. The key to our approach lies in our
proposed temporal-informative adapter (TIA), which is a novel lightweight
module that reduces training memory. Using TIA, we free the humongous backbone
from learning to adapt to the TAD task by only updating the parameters in TIA.
TIA also leads to better TAD representation by temporally aggregating context
from adjacent frames throughout the backbone. We evaluate our model across four
representative datasets. Owing to our efficient design, we are able to train
end-to-end on VideoMAEv2-giant and achieve 75.4% mAP on THUMOS14, being the
first end-to-end model to outperform the best feature-based methods.
</p>

### Title: Efficient Stitchable Task Adaptation. (arXiv:2311.17352v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17352](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17352)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17352] Efficient Stitchable Task Adaptation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17352) #memory`
* Summary: <p>The paradigm of pre-training and fine-tuning has laid the foundation for
deploying deep learning models. However, most fine-tuning methods are designed
to meet a specific resource budget. Recently, considering diverse deployment
scenarios with various resource budgets, stitchable neural network (SN-Net) is
introduced to quickly obtain numerous new networks (stitches) from the
pre-trained models (anchors) in a model family via model stitching. Although
promising, SN-Net confronts new challenges when adapting it to new target
domains, including huge memory and storage requirements and a long and
sub-optimal multistage adaptation process. In this work, we present a novel
framework, Efficient Stitchable Task Adaptation (ESTA), to efficiently produce
a palette of fine-tuned models that adhere to diverse resource constraints.
Specifically, we first tailor parameter-efficient fine-tuning to share low-rank
updates among the stitches while maintaining independent bias terms. In this
way, we largely reduce fine-tuning memory burdens and mitigate the interference
among stitches that arises in task adaptation. Furthermore, we streamline a
simple yet effective one-stage deployment pipeline, which estimates the
important stitches to deploy with training-time gradient statistics. By
assigning higher sampling probabilities to important stitches, we also get a
boosted Pareto frontier. Extensive experiments on 25 downstream visual
recognition tasks demonstrate that our ESTA is capable of generating stitches
with smooth accuracy-efficiency trade-offs and surpasses the direct SN-Net
adaptation by remarkable margins with significantly lower training time and
fewer trainable parameters. Furthermore, we demonstrate the flexibility and
scalability of our ESTA framework by stitching LLMs from LLaMA family,
obtaining chatbot stitches of assorted sizes.
</p>

### Title: Spherical Frustum Sparse Convolution Network for LiDAR Point Cloud Semantic Segmentation. (arXiv:2311.17491v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17491](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17491)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17491] Spherical Frustum Sparse Convolution Network for LiDAR Point Cloud Semantic Segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17491) #memory`
* Summary: <p>LiDAR point cloud semantic segmentation enables the robots to obtain
fine-grained semantic information of the surrounding environment. Recently,
many works project the point cloud onto the 2D image and adopt the 2D
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) or vision transformer for LiDAR point
cloud semantic segmentation. However, since more than one point can be
projected onto the same 2D position but only one point can be preserved, the
previous 2D image-based segmentation methods suffer from inevitable quantized
information loss. To avoid quantized information loss, in this paper, we
propose a novel spherical frustum structure. The points projected onto the same
2D position are preserved in the spherical frustums. Moreover, we propose a
memory-efficient hash-based representation of spherical frustums. Through the
hash-based representation, we propose the Spherical Frustum sparse Convolution
(SFC) and Frustum Fast Point Sampling (F2PS) to convolve and sample the points
stored in spherical frustums respectively. Finally, we present the Spherical
Frustum sparse Convolution Network (SFCNet) to adopt 2D CNNs for LiDAR point
cloud semantic segmentation without quantized information loss. Extensive
experiments on the SemanticKITTI and nuScenes datasets demonstrate that our
SFCNet outperforms the 2D image-based semantic segmentation methods based on
conventional spherical projection. The source code will be released later.
</p>

### Title: Adversarial Robust Memory-Based Continual Learner. (arXiv:2311.17608v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17608](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17608)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17608] Adversarial Robust Memory-Based Continual Learner](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17608) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Despite the remarkable advances that have been made in continual learning,
the adversarial vulnerability of such methods has not been fully discussed. We
delve into the adversarial robustness of memory-based continual learning
algorithms and observe limited robustness improvement by directly applying
adversarial training techniques. Preliminary studies reveal the twin challenges
for building adversarial robust continual learners: accelerated forgetting in
continual learning and gradient obfuscation in adversarial robustness. In this
study, we put forward a novel adversarial robust memory-based continual learner
that adjusts data logits to mitigate the forgetting of pasts caused by
adversarial samples. Furthermore, we devise a gradient-based data selection
mechanism to overcome the gradient obfuscation caused by limited stored data.
The proposed approach can widely integrate with existing memory-based continual
learning as well as adversarial training algorithms in a plug-and-play way.
Extensive experiments on Split-CIFAR10/100 and Split-Tiny-ImageNet demonstrate
the effectiveness of our approach, achieving up to 8.13% higher accuracy for
adversarial data.
</p>

### Title: LiveTune: Dynamic Parameter Tuning for Training Deep Neural Networks. (arXiv:2311.17279v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17279](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17279)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17279] LiveTune: Dynamic Parameter Tuning for Training Deep Neural Networks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17279) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Traditional machine learning training is a static process that lacks
real-time adaptability of hyperparameters. Popular tuning solutions during
runtime involve checkpoints and schedulers. Adjusting hyper-parameters usually
require the program to be restarted, wasting utilization and time, while
placing unnecessary strain on memory and processors. We present LiveTune, a new
framework allowing real-time parameter tuning during training through
LiveVariables. Live Variables allow for a continuous training session by
storing parameters on designated ports on the system, allowing them to be
dynamically adjusted. Extensive evaluations of our framework show saving up to
60 seconds and 5.4 Kilojoules of energy per hyperparameter change.
</p>

## few-shot
### Title: Beyond Sole Strength: Customized Ensembles for Generalized Vision-Language Models. (arXiv:2311.17091v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17091](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17091)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/zhihelu/ensemble_vlm](https://github.com/zhihelu/ensemble_vlm)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17091] Beyond Sole Strength: Customized Ensembles for Generalized Vision-Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17091) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Fine-tuning pre-trained vision-language models (VLMs), e.g., CLIP, for the
open-world generalization has gained increasing popularity due to its practical
value. However, performance advancements are limited when relying solely on
intricate algorithmic designs for a single model, even one exhibiting strong
performance, e.g., CLIP-ViT-B/16. This paper, for the first time, explores the
collaborative potential of leveraging much weaker VLMs to enhance the
generalization of a robust single model. The affirmative findings motivate us
to address the generalization problem from a novel perspective, i.e., ensemble
of pre-trained VLMs. We introduce three customized ensemble strategies, each
tailored to one specific scenario. Firstly, we introduce the zero-shot
ensemble, automatically adjusting the logits of different models based on their
confidence when only pre-trained VLMs are available. Furthermore, for scenarios
with extra few-shot samples, we propose the training-free and tuning ensemble,
offering flexibility based on the availability of computing resources. The
proposed ensemble strategies are evaluated on zero-shot, base-to-new, and
cross-dataset generalization, achieving new state-of-the-art performance.
Notably, this work represents an initial stride toward enhancing the
generalization performance of VLMs via ensemble. The code is available at
https://github.com/zhiheLu/Ensemble_VLM.git.
</p>

### Title: Robust Transductive Few-shot Learning via Joint Message Passing and Prototype-based Soft-label Propagation. (arXiv:2311.17096v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17096](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17096)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17096] Robust Transductive Few-shot Learning via Joint Message Passing and Prototype-based Soft-label Propagation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17096) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Few-shot learning (FSL) aims to develop a learning model with the ability to
generalize to new classes using a few support samples. For transductive FSL
tasks, prototype learning and label propagation methods are commonly employed.
Prototype methods generally first learn the representative prototypes from the
support set and then determine the labels of queries based on the metric
between query samples and prototypes. Label propagation methods try to
propagate the labels of support samples on the constructed graph encoding the
relationships between both support and query samples. This paper aims to
integrate these two principles together and develop an efficient and robust
transductive FSL approach, termed Prototype-based Soft-label Propagation
(PSLP). Specifically, we first estimate the soft-label presentation for each
query sample by leveraging prototypes. Then, we conduct soft-label propagation
on our learned query-support graph. Both steps are conducted progressively to
boost their respective performance. Moreover, to learn effective prototypes for
soft-label estimation as well as the desirable query-support graph for
soft-label propagation, we design a new joint message passing scheme to learn
sample presentation and relational graph jointly. Our PSLP method is
parameter-free and can be implemented very efficiently. On four popular
datasets, our method achieves competitive results on both balanced and
imbalanced settings compared to the state-of-the-art methods. The code will be
released upon acceptance.
</p>

### Title: Explaining CLIP's performance disparities on data from blind/low vision users. (arXiv:2311.17315v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17315](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17315)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17315] Explaining CLIP's performance disparities on data from blind/low vision users](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17315) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Large multi-modal models (LMMs) hold the potential to usher in a new era of
automated visual assistance for people who are blind or low vision (BLV). Yet,
these models have not been systematically evaluated on data captured by BLV
users. We address this by empirically assessing CLIP, a widely-used LMM likely
to underpin many assistive technologies. Testing 25 CLIP variants in a
zero-shot classification task, we find that their accuracy is 15 percentage
points lower on average for images captured by BLV users than web-crawled
images. This disparity stems from CLIP's sensitivities to 1) image content
(e.g. not recognizing disability objects as well as other objects); 2) image
quality (e.g. not being robust to lighting variation); and 3) text content
(e.g. not recognizing objects described by tactile adjectives as well as visual
ones). We delve deeper with a textual analysis of three common pre-training
datasets: LAION-400M, LAION-2B and DataComp-1B, showing that disability content
is rarely mentioned. We then provide three examples that illustrate how the
performance disparities extend to three downstream models underpinned by CLIP:
OWL-ViT, CLIPSeg and DALL-E2. We find that few-shot learning with as few as 5
images can mitigate CLIP's quality-of-service disparities for BLV users in some
scenarios, which we discuss alongside a set of other possible mitigations.
</p>

### Title: Focus on Query: Adversarial Mining Transformer for Few-Shot Segmentation. (arXiv:2311.17626v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17626](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17626)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/wyxdm/amnet](https://github.com/wyxdm/amnet)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17626] Focus on Query: Adversarial Mining Transformer for Few-Shot Segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17626) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Few-shot segmentation (FSS) aims to segment objects of new categories given
only a handful of annotated samples. Previous works focus their efforts on
exploring the support information while paying less attention to the mining of
the critical query branch. In this paper, we rethink the importance of support
information and propose a new query-centric FSS model Adversarial Mining
Transformer (AMFormer), which achieves accurate query image segmentation with
only rough support guidance or even weak support labels. The proposed AMFormer
enjoys several merits. First, we design an object mining transformer (G) that
can achieve the expansion of incomplete region activated by support clue, and a
detail mining transformer (D) to discriminate the detailed local difference
between the expanded mask and the ground truth. Second, we propose to train G
and D via an adversarial process, where G is optimized to generate more
accurate masks approaching ground truth to fool D. We conduct extensive
experiments on commonly used Pascal-5i and COCO-20i benchmarks and achieve
state-of-the-art results across all settings. In addition, the decent
performance with weak support labels in our query-centric paradigm may inspire
the development of more general FSS models. Code will be available at
https://github.com/Wyxdm/AMNet.
</p>

### Title: ClimateX: Do LLMs Accurately Assess Human Expert Confidence in Climate Statements?. (arXiv:2311.17107v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17107](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17107)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/rlacombe/climatex](https://github.com/rlacombe/climatex)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17107] ClimateX: Do LLMs Accurately Assess Human Expert Confidence in Climate Statements?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17107) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Evaluating the accuracy of outputs generated by Large Language Models (LLMs)
is especially important in the climate science and policy domain. We introduce
the Expert Confidence in Climate Statements (ClimateX) dataset, a novel,
curated, expert-labeled dataset consisting of 8094 climate statements collected
from the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports,
labeled with their associated confidence levels. Using this dataset, we show
that recent LLMs can classify human expert confidence in climate-related
statements, especially in a few-shot learning setting, but with limited (up to
47%) accuracy. Overall, models exhibit consistent and significant
over-confidence on low and medium confidence statements. We highlight
implications of our results for climate communication, LLMs evaluation
strategies, and the use of LLMs in information retrieval systems.
</p>

### Title: TARGET: Template-Transferable Backdoor Attack Against Prompt-based NLP Models via GPT4. (arXiv:2311.17429v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17429](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17429)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.17429] TARGET: Template-Transferable Backdoor Attack Against Prompt-based NLP Models via GPT4](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17429) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Prompt-based learning has been widely applied in many low-resource NLP tasks
such as few-shot scenarios. However, this paradigm has been shown to be
vulnerable to backdoor attacks. Most of the existing attack methods focus on
inserting manually predefined templates as triggers in the pre-training phase
to train the victim model and utilize the same triggers in the downstream task
to perform inference, which tends to ignore the transferability and
stealthiness of the templates. In this work, we propose a novel approach of
TARGET (Template-trAnsfeRable backdoor attack aGainst prompt-basEd NLP models
via GPT4), which is a data-independent attack method. Specifically, we first
utilize GPT4 to reformulate manual templates to generate tone-strong and normal
templates, and the former are injected into the model as a backdoor trigger in
the pre-training phase. Then, we not only directly employ the above templates
in the downstream task, but also use GPT4 to generate templates with similar
tone to the above templates to carry out transferable attacks. Finally we have
conducted extensive experiments on five NLP datasets and three BERT series
models, with experimental results justifying that our TARGET method has better
attack performance and stealthiness compared to the two-external baseline
methods on direct attacks, and in addition achieves satisfactory attack
capability in the unseen tone-similar templates.
</p>

