## diffusion
### Title: Improved DDIM Sampling with Moment Matching Gaussian Mixtures. (arXiv:2311.04938v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04938](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04938)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04938] Improved DDIM Sampling with Moment Matching Gaussian Mixtures](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04938) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We propose using a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) as reverse transition
operator (kernel) within the Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models (DDIM)
framework, which is one of the most widely used approaches for accelerated
sampling from pre-trained Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM).
Specifically we match the first and second order central moments of the DDPM
forward marginals by constraining the parameters of the GMM. We see that moment
matching is sufficient to obtain samples with equal or better quality than the
original DDIM with Gaussian kernels. We provide experimental results with
unconditional models trained on CelebAHQ and FFHQ and class-conditional models
trained on ImageNet datasets respectively. Our results suggest that using the
GMM kernel leads to significant improvements in the quality of the generated
samples when the number of sampling steps is small, as measured by FID and IS
metrics. For example on ImageNet 256x256, using 10 sampling steps, we achieve a
FID of 6.94 and IS of 207.85 with a GMM kernel compared to 10.15 and 196.73
respectively with a Gaussian kernel.
</p>

### Title: Lightweight Diffusion Models with Distillation-Based Block Neural Architecture Search. (arXiv:2311.04950v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04950](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04950)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04950] Lightweight Diffusion Models with Distillation-Based Block Neural Architecture Search](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04950) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Diffusion models have recently shown remarkable generation ability, achieving
state-of-the-art performance in many tasks. However, the high computational
cost is still a troubling problem for diffusion models. To tackle this problem,
we propose to automatically remove the structural redundancy in diffusion
models with our proposed Diffusion Distillation-based Block-wise Neural
Architecture Search (DiffNAS). Specifically, given a larger pretrained teacher,
we leverage DiffNAS to search for the smallest architecture which achieves
on-par or even better performance than the teacher. Considering current
diffusion models are based on UNet which naturally has a block-wise structure,
we perform neural architecture search independently in each block, which
largely reduces the search space. Different from previous block-wise NAS
methods, DiffNAS contains a block-wise local search strategy and a retraining
strategy with a joint dynamic loss. Concretely, during the search process, we
block-wisely select the best subnet to avoid the unfairness brought by the
global search strategy used in previous works. When retraining the searched
architecture, we adopt a dynamic joint loss to maintain the consistency between
supernet training and subnet retraining, which also provides informative
objectives for each block and shortens the paths of gradient propagation. We
demonstrate this joint loss can effectively improve model performance. We also
prove the necessity of the dynamic adjustment of this loss. The experiments
show that our method can achieve significant computational reduction,
especially on latent diffusion models with about 50% MACs and Parameter
reduction.
</p>

### Title: BrainNetDiff: Generative AI Empowers Brain Network Generation via Multimodal Diffusion Model. (arXiv:2311.05199v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05199](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05199)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05199] BrainNetDiff: Generative AI Empowers Brain Network Generation via Multimodal Diffusion Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05199) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Brain network analysis has emerged as pivotal method for gaining a deeper
understanding of brain functions and disease mechanisms. Despite the existence
of various network construction approaches, shortcomings persist in the
learning of correlations between structural and functional brain imaging data.
In light of this, we introduce a novel method called BrainNetDiff, which
combines a multi-head Transformer encoder to extract relevant features from
fMRI time series and integrates a conditional latent diffusion model for brain
network generation. Leveraging a conditional prompt and a fusion attention
mechanism, this method significantly improves the accuracy and stability of
brain network generation. To the best of our knowledge, this represents the
first framework that employs diffusion for the fusion of the multimodal brain
imaging and brain network generation from images to graphs. We validate
applicability of this framework in the construction of brain network across
healthy and neurologically impaired cohorts using the authentic dataset.
Experimental results vividly demonstrate the significant effectiveness of the
proposed method across the downstream disease classification tasks. These
findings convincingly emphasize the prospective value in the field of brain
network research, particularly its key significance in neuroimaging analysis
and disease diagnosis. This research provides a valuable reference for the
processing of multimodal brain imaging data and introduces a novel, efficient
solution to the field of neuroimaging.
</p>

### Title: ConRad: Image Constrained Radiance Fields for 3D Generation from a Single Image. (arXiv:2311.05230v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05230](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05230)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05230] ConRad: Image Constrained Radiance Fields for 3D Generation from a Single Image](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05230) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We present a novel method for reconstructing 3D objects from a single RGB
image. Our method leverages the latest image generation models to infer the
hidden 3D structure while remaining faithful to the input image. While existing
methods obtain impressive results in generating 3D models from text prompts,
they do not provide an easy approach for conditioning on input RGB data.
Na\"ive extensions of these methods often lead to improper alignment in
appearance between the input image and the 3D reconstructions. We address these
challenges by introducing Image Constrained Radiance Fields (ConRad), a novel
variant of neural radiance fields. ConRad is an efficient 3D representation
that explicitly captures the appearance of an input image in one viewpoint. We
propose a training algorithm that leverages the single RGB image in conjunction
with pretrained Diffusion Models to optimize the parameters of a ConRad
representation. Extensive experiments show that ConRad representations can
simplify preservation of image details while producing a realistic 3D
reconstruction. Compared to existing state-of-the-art baselines, we show that
our 3D reconstructions remain more faithful to the input and produce more
consistent 3D models while demonstrating significantly improved quantitative
performance on a ShapeNet object benchmark.
</p>

### Title: Control3D: Towards Controllable Text-to-3D Generation. (arXiv:2311.05461v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05461](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05461)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05461] Control3D: Towards Controllable Text-to-3D Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05461) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent remarkable advances in large-scale text-to-image diffusion models have
inspired a significant breakthrough in text-to-3D generation, pursuing 3D
content creation solely from a given text prompt. However, existing text-to-3D
techniques lack a crucial ability in the creative process: interactively
control and shape the synthetic 3D contents according to users' desired
specifications (e.g., sketch). To alleviate this issue, we present the first
attempt for text-to-3D generation conditioning on the additional hand-drawn
sketch, namely Control3D, which enhances controllability for users. In
particular, a 2D conditioned diffusion model (ControlNet) is remoulded to guide
the learning of 3D scene parameterized as NeRF, encouraging each view of 3D
scene aligned with the given text prompt and hand-drawn sketch. Moreover, we
exploit a pre-trained differentiable photo-to-sketch model to directly estimate
the sketch of the rendered image over synthetic 3D scene. Such estimated sketch
along with each sampled view is further enforced to be geometrically consistent
with the given sketch, pursuing better controllable text-to-3D generation.
Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposal can generate
accurate and faithful 3D scenes that align closely with the input text prompts
and sketches.
</p>

### Title: ControlStyle: Text-Driven Stylized Image Generation Using Diffusion Priors. (arXiv:2311.05463v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05463](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05463)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05463] ControlStyle: Text-Driven Stylized Image Generation Using Diffusion Priors](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05463) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recently, the multimedia community has witnessed the rise of diffusion models
trained on large-scale multi-modal data for visual content creation,
particularly in the field of text-to-image generation. In this paper, we
propose a new task for ``stylizing'' text-to-image models, namely text-driven
stylized image generation, that further enhances editability in content
creation. Given input text prompt and style image, this task aims to produce
stylized images which are both semantically relevant to input text prompt and
meanwhile aligned with the style image in style. To achieve this, we present a
new diffusion model (ControlStyle) via upgrading a pre-trained text-to-image
model with a trainable modulation network enabling more conditions of text
prompts and style images. Moreover, diffusion style and content regularizations
are simultaneously introduced to facilitate the learning of this modulation
network with these diffusion priors, pursuing high-quality stylized
text-to-image generation. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness
of our ControlStyle in producing more visually pleasing and artistic results,
surpassing a simple combination of text-to-image model and conventional style
transfer techniques.
</p>

### Title: 3DStyle-Diffusion: Pursuing Fine-grained Text-driven 3D Stylization with 2D Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2311.05464v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05464](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05464)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/yanghb22-fdu/3dstyle-diffusion-official](https://github.com/yanghb22-fdu/3dstyle-diffusion-official)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05464] 3DStyle-Diffusion: Pursuing Fine-grained Text-driven 3D Stylization with 2D Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05464) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>3D content creation via text-driven stylization has played a fundamental
challenge to multimedia and graphics community. Recent advances of cross-modal
foundation models (e.g., CLIP) have made this problem feasible. Those
approaches commonly leverage CLIP to align the holistic semantics of stylized
mesh with the given text prompt. Nevertheless, it is not trivial to enable more
controllable stylization of fine-grained details in 3D meshes solely based on
such semantic-level cross-modal supervision. In this work, we propose a new
3DStyle-Diffusion model that triggers fine-grained stylization of 3D meshes
with additional controllable appearance and geometric guidance from 2D
Diffusion models. Technically, 3DStyle-Diffusion first parameterizes the
texture of 3D mesh into reflectance properties and scene lighting using
implicit MLP networks. Meanwhile, an accurate depth map of each sampled view is
achieved conditioned on 3D mesh. Then, 3DStyle-Diffusion leverages a
pre-trained controllable 2D Diffusion model to guide the learning of rendered
images, encouraging the synthesized image of each view semantically aligned
with text prompt and geometrically consistent with depth map. This way
elegantly integrates both image rendering via implicit MLP networks and
diffusion process of image synthesis in an end-to-end fashion, enabling a
high-quality fine-grained stylization of 3D meshes. We also build a new dataset
derived from Objaverse and the evaluation protocol for this task. Through both
qualitative and quantitative experiments, we validate the capability of our
3DStyle-Diffusion. Source code and data are available at
\url{https://github.com/yanghb22-fdu/3DStyle-Diffusion-Official}.
</p>

### Title: LCM-LoRA: A Universal Stable-Diffusion Acceleration Module. (arXiv:2311.05556v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05556](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05556)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/luosiallen/latent-consistency-model](https://github.com/luosiallen/latent-consistency-model)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05556] LCM-LoRA: A Universal Stable-Diffusion Acceleration Module](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05556) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Latent Consistency Models (LCMs) have achieved impressive performance in
accelerating text-to-image generative tasks, producing high-quality images with
minimal inference steps. LCMs are distilled from pre-trained latent diffusion
models (LDMs), requiring only ~32 A100 GPU training hours. This report further
extends LCMs' potential in two aspects: First, by applying LoRA distillation to
Stable-Diffusion models including SD-V1.5, SSD-1B, and SDXL, we have expanded
LCM's scope to larger models with significantly less memory consumption,
achieving superior image generation quality. Second, we identify the LoRA
parameters obtained through LCM distillation as a universal Stable-Diffusion
acceleration module, named LCM-LoRA. LCM-LoRA can be directly plugged into
various Stable-Diffusion fine-tuned models or LoRAs without training, thus
representing a universally applicable accelerator for diverse image generation
tasks. Compared with previous numerical PF-ODE solvers such as DDIM,
DPM-Solver, LCM-LoRA can be viewed as a plug-in neural PF-ODE solver that
possesses strong generalization abilities. Project page:
https://github.com/luosiallen/latent-consistency-model.
</p>

### Title: Predicting the Position Uncertainty at the Time of Closest Approach with Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2311.05417v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05417](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05417)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05417] Predicting the Position Uncertainty at the Time of Closest Approach with Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05417) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>The risk of collision between resident space objects has significantly
increased in recent years. As a result, spacecraft collision avoidance
procedures have become an essential part of satellite operations. To ensure
safe and effective space activities, satellite owners and operators rely on
constantly updated estimates of encounters. These estimates include the
uncertainty associated with the position of each object at the expected TCA.
These estimates are crucial in planning risk mitigation measures, such as
collision avoidance manoeuvres. As the TCA approaches, the accuracy of these
estimates improves, as both objects' orbit determination and propagation
procedures are made for increasingly shorter time intervals. However, this
improvement comes at the cost of taking place close to the critical decision
moment. This means that safe avoidance manoeuvres might not be possible or
could incur significant costs. Therefore, knowing the evolution of this
variable in advance can be crucial for operators. This work proposes a machine
learning model based on diffusion models to forecast the position uncertainty
of objects involved in a close encounter, particularly for the secondary object
(usually debris), which tends to be more unpredictable. We compare the
performance of our model with other state-of-the-art solutions and a na\"ive
baseline approach, showing that the proposed solution has the potential to
significantly improve the safety and effectiveness of spacecraft operations.
</p>

### Title: Diffusion Based Causal Representation Learning. (arXiv:2311.05421v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05421](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05421)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05421] Diffusion Based Causal Representation Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05421) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Causal reasoning can be considered a cornerstone of intelligent systems.
Having access to an underlying causal graph comes with the promise of
cause-effect estimation and the identification of efficient and safe
interventions. However, learning causal representations remains a major
challenge, due to the complexity of many real-world systems. Previous works on
causal representation learning have mostly focused on Variational Auto-Encoders
(VAE). These methods only provide representations from a point estimate, and
they are unsuitable to handle high dimensions. To overcome these problems, we
proposed a new Diffusion-based Causal Representation Learning (DCRL) algorithm.
This algorithm uses diffusion-based representations for causal discovery. DCRL
offers access to infinite dimensional latent codes, which encode different
levels of information in the latent code. In a first proof of principle, we
investigate the use of DCRL for causal representation learning. We further
demonstrate experimentally that this approach performs comparably well in
identifying the causal structure and causal variables.
</p>

### Title: Bayesian Methods for Media Mix Modelling with shape and funnel effects. (arXiv:2311.05587v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05587](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05587)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05587] Bayesian Methods for Media Mix Modelling with shape and funnel effects](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05587) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, significant progress in generative AI has highlighted the
important role of physics-inspired models that utilize advanced mathematical
concepts based on fundamental physics principles to enhance artificial
intelligence capabilities. Among these models, those based on diffusion
equations have greatly improved image quality. This study aims to explore the
potential uses of Maxwell-Boltzmann equation, which forms the basis of the
kinetic theory of gases, and the Michaelis-Menten model in Marketing Mix
Modelling (MMM) applications. We propose incorporating these equations into
Hierarchical Bayesian models to analyse consumer behaviour in the context of
advertising. These equation sets excel in accurately describing the random
dynamics in complex systems like social interactions and consumer-advertising
interactions.
</p>

### Title: Diffusion-Generative Multi-Fidelity Learning for Physical Simulation. (arXiv:2311.05606v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05606](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05606)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05606] Diffusion-Generative Multi-Fidelity Learning for Physical Simulation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05606) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Multi-fidelity surrogate learning is important for physical simulation
related applications in that it avoids running numerical solvers from scratch,
which is known to be costly, and it uses multi-fidelity examples for training
and greatly reduces the cost of data collection. Despite the variety of
existing methods, they all build a model to map the input parameters outright
to the solution output. Inspired by the recent breakthrough in generative
models, we take an alternative view and consider the solution output as
generated from random noises. We develop a diffusion-generative multi-fidelity
(DGMF) learning method based on stochastic differential equations (SDE), where
the generation is a continuous denoising process. We propose a conditional
score model to control the solution generation by the input parameters and the
fidelity. By conditioning on additional inputs (temporal or spacial variables),
our model can efficiently learn and predict multi-dimensional solution arrays.
Our method naturally unifies discrete and continuous fidelity modeling. The
advantage of our method in several typical applications shows a promising new
direction for multi-fidelity learning.
</p>

## self-supervised
### Title: POISE: Pose Guided Human Silhouette Extraction under Occlusions. (arXiv:2311.05077v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05077](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05077)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/take2rohit/poise](https://github.com/take2rohit/poise)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05077] POISE: Pose Guided Human Silhouette Extraction under Occlusions](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05077) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Human silhouette extraction is a fundamental task in computer vision with
applications in various downstream tasks. However, occlusions pose a
significant challenge, leading to incomplete and distorted silhouettes. To
address this challenge, we introduce POISE: Pose Guided Human Silhouette
Extraction under Occlusions, a novel self-supervised fusion framework that
enhances accuracy and robustness in human silhouette prediction. By combining
initial silhouette estimates from a segmentation model with human joint
predictions from a 2D pose estimation model, POISE leverages the complementary
strengths of both approaches, effectively integrating precise body shape
information and spatial information to tackle occlusions. Furthermore, the
self-supervised nature of \POISE eliminates the need for costly annotations,
making it scalable and practical. Extensive experimental results demonstrate
its superiority in improving silhouette extraction under occlusions, with
promising results in downstream tasks such as gait recognition. The code for
our method is available https://github.com/take2rohit/poise.
</p>

### Title: A Deep Learning Method for Simultaneous Denoising and Missing Wedge Reconstruction in Cryogenic Electron Tomography. (arXiv:2311.05539v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05539](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05539)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/mli-lab/deepdewedge](https://github.com/mli-lab/deepdewedge)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05539] A Deep Learning Method for Simultaneous Denoising and Missing Wedge Reconstruction in Cryogenic Electron Tomography](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05539) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Cryogenic electron tomography (cryo-ET) is a technique for imaging biological
samples such as viruses, cells, and proteins in 3D. A microscope collects a
series of 2D projections of the sample, and the goal is to reconstruct the 3D
density of the sample called the tomogram. This is difficult as the 2D
projections have a missing wedge of information and are noisy. Tomograms
reconstructed with conventional methods, such as filtered back-projection,
suffer from the noise, and from artifacts and anisotropic resolution due to the
missing wedge of information. To improve the visual quality and resolution of
such tomograms, we propose a deep-learning approach for simultaneous denoising
and missing wedge reconstruction called DeepDeWedge. DeepDeWedge is based on
fitting a neural network to the 2D projections with a self-supervised loss
inspired by noise2noise-like methods. The algorithm requires no training or
ground truth data. Experiments on synthetic and real cryo-ET data show that
DeepDeWedge achieves competitive performance for deep learning-based denoising
and missing wedge reconstruction of cryo-ET tomograms.
</p>

### Title: High-Performance Transformers for Table Structure Recognition Need Early Convolutions. (arXiv:2311.05565v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05565](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05565)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/poloclub/tsr-convstem](https://github.com/poloclub/tsr-convstem)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05565] High-Performance Transformers for Table Structure Recognition Need Early Convolutions](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05565) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Table structure recognition (TSR) aims to convert tabular images into a
machine-readable format, where a visual encoder extracts image features and a
textual decoder generates table-representing tokens. Existing approaches use
classic convolutional neural network (CNN) backbones for the visual encoder and
transformers for the textual decoder. However, this hybrid CNN-Transformer
architecture introduces a complex visual encoder that accounts for nearly half
of the total model parameters, markedly reduces both training and inference
speed, and hinders the potential for self-supervised learning in TSR. In this
work, we design a lightweight visual encoder for TSR without sacrificing
expressive power. We discover that a convolutional stem can match classic CNN
backbone performance, with a much simpler model. The convolutional stem strikes
an optimal balance between two crucial factors for high-performance TSR: a
higher receptive field (RF) ratio and a longer sequence length. This allows it
to "see" an appropriate portion of the table and "store" the complex table
structure within sufficient context length for the subsequent transformer. We
conducted reproducible ablation studies and open-sourced our code at
https://github.com/poloclub/tsr-convstem to enhance transparency, inspire
innovations, and facilitate fair comparisons in our domain as tables are a
promising modality for representation learning.
</p>

### Title: A comparative analysis between Conformer-Transducer, Whisper, and wav2vec2 for improving the child speech recognition. (arXiv:2311.04936v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04936](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04936)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/c3imaging/child_asr_conformer](https://github.com/c3imaging/child_asr_conformer)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04936] A comparative analysis between Conformer-Transducer, Whisper, and wav2vec2 for improving the child speech recognition](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04936) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems have progressed significantly in
their performance on adult speech data; however, transcribing child speech
remains challenging due to the acoustic differences in the characteristics of
child and adult voices. This work aims to explore the potential of adapting
state-of-the-art Conformer-transducer models to child speech to improve child
speech recognition performance. Furthermore, the results are compared with
those of self-supervised wav2vec2 models and semi-supervised multi-domain
Whisper models that were previously finetuned on the same data. We demonstrate
that finetuning Conformer-transducer models on child speech yields significant
improvements in ASR performance on child speech, compared to the non-finetuned
models. We also show Whisper and wav2vec2 adaptation on different child speech
datasets. Our detailed comparative analysis shows that wav2vec2 provides the
most consistent performance improvements among the three methods studied.
</p>

## foundation model
### Title: Tuning-less Object Naming with a Foundation Model. (arXiv:2311.04924v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04924](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04924)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04924] Tuning-less Object Naming with a Foundation Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04924) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>We implement a real-time object naming system that enables learning a set of
named entities never seen. Our approach employs an existing foundation model
that we consider ready to see anything before starting. It turns seen images
into relatively small feature vectors that we associate with index to a
gradually built vocabulary without any training of fine-tuning of the model.
Our contribution is using the association mechanism known from transformers as
attention. It has features that support generalization from irrelevant
information for distinguishing the entities and potentially enable associating
with much more than indices to vocabulary. As a result, the system can work in
a one-shot manner and correctly name objects named in different contents. We
also outline implementation details of the system modules integrated by a
blackboard architecture. Finally, we investigate the system's quality, mainly
how many objects it can handle in this way.
</p>

### Title: Towards End-to-End Spoken Grammatical Error Correction. (arXiv:2311.05550v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05550](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05550)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05550] Towards End-to-End Spoken Grammatical Error Correction](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05550) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Grammatical feedback is crucial for L2 learners, teachers, and testers.
Spoken grammatical error correction (GEC) aims to supply feedback to L2
learners on their use of grammar when speaking. This process usually relies on
a cascaded pipeline comprising an ASR system, disfluency removal, and GEC, with
the associated concern of propagating errors between these individual modules.
In this paper, we introduce an alternative "end-to-end" approach to spoken GEC,
exploiting a speech recognition foundation model, Whisper. This foundation
model can be used to replace the whole framework or part of it, e.g., ASR and
disfluency removal. These end-to-end approaches are compared to more standard
cascaded approaches on the data obtained from a free-speaking spoken language
assessment test, Linguaskill. Results demonstrate that end-to-end spoken GEC is
possible within this architecture, but the lack of available data limits
current performance compared to a system using large quantities of text-based
GEC data. Conversely, end-to-end disfluency detection and removal, which is
easier for the attention-based Whisper to learn, does outperform cascaded
approaches. Additionally, the paper discusses the challenges of providing
feedback to candidates when using end-to-end systems for spoken GEC.
</p>

### Title: Multimodal Clinical Benchmark for Emergency Care (MC-BEC): A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Foundation Models in Emergency Medicine. (arXiv:2311.04937v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04937](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04937)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04937] Multimodal Clinical Benchmark for Emergency Care (MC-BEC): A Comprehensive Benchmark for Evaluating Foundation Models in Emergency Medicine](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04937) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>We propose the Multimodal Clinical Benchmark for Emergency Care (MC-BEC), a
comprehensive benchmark for evaluating foundation models in Emergency Medicine
using a dataset of 100K+ continuously monitored Emergency Department visits
from 2020-2022. MC-BEC focuses on clinically relevant prediction tasks at
timescales from minutes to days, including predicting patient decompensation,
disposition, and emergency department (ED) revisit, and includes a standardized
evaluation framework with train-test splits and evaluation metrics. The
multimodal dataset includes a wide range of detailed clinical data, including
triage information, prior diagnoses and medications, continuously measured
vital signs, electrocardiogram and photoplethysmograph waveforms, orders placed
and medications administered throughout the visit, free-text reports of imaging
studies, and information on ED diagnosis, disposition, and subsequent revisits.
We provide performance baselines for each prediction task to enable the
evaluation of multimodal, multitask models. We believe that MC-BEC will
encourage researchers to develop more effective, generalizable, and accessible
foundation models for multimodal clinical data.
</p>

## generative
### Title: Robust Retraining-free GAN Fingerprinting via Personalized Normalization. (arXiv:2311.05478v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05478](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05478)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05478] Robust Retraining-free GAN Fingerprinting via Personalized Normalization](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05478) #generative`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, there has been significant growth in the commercial
applications of generative models, licensed and distributed by model developers
to users, who in turn use them to offer services. In this scenario, there is a
need to track and identify the responsible user in the presence of a violation
of the license agreement or any kind of malicious usage. Although there are
methods enabling Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to include invisible
watermarks in the images they produce, generating a model with a different
watermark, referred to as a fingerprint, for each user is time- and
resource-consuming due to the need to retrain the model to include the desired
fingerprint. In this paper, we propose a retraining-free GAN fingerprinting
method that allows model developers to easily generate model copies with the
same functionality but different fingerprints. The generator is modified by
inserting additional Personalized Normalization (PN) layers whose parameters
(scaling and bias) are generated by two dedicated shallow networks (ParamGen
Nets) taking the fingerprint as input. A watermark decoder is trained
simultaneously to extract the fingerprint from the generated images. The
proposed method can embed different fingerprints inside the GAN by just
changing the input of the ParamGen Nets and performing a feedforward pass,
without finetuning or retraining. The performance of the proposed method in
terms of robustness against both model-level and image-level attacks is also
superior to the state-of-the-art.
</p>

### Title: L-WaveBlock: A Novel Feature Extractor Leveraging Wavelets for Generative Adversarial Networks. (arXiv:2311.05548v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05548](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05548)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05548] L-WaveBlock: A Novel Feature Extractor Leveraging Wavelets for Generative Adversarial Networks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05548) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have risen to prominence in the field
of deep learning, facilitating the generation of realistic data from random
noise. The effectiveness of GANs often depends on the quality of feature
extraction, a critical aspect of their architecture. This paper introduces
L-WaveBlock, a novel and robust feature extractor that leverages the
capabilities of the Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) with deep learning
methodologies. L-WaveBlock is catered to quicken the convergence of GAN
generators while simultaneously enhancing their performance. The paper
demonstrates the remarkable utility of L-WaveBlock across three datasets, a
road satellite imagery dataset, the CelebA dataset and the GoPro dataset,
showcasing its ability to ease feature extraction and make it more efficient.
By utilizing DWT, L-WaveBlock efficiently captures the intricate details of
both structural and textural details, and further partitions feature maps into
orthogonal subbands across multiple scales while preserving essential
information at the same time. Not only does it lead to faster convergence, but
also gives competent results on every dataset by employing the L-WaveBlock. The
proposed method achieves an Inception Score of 3.6959 and a Structural
Similarity Index of 0.4261 on the maps dataset, a Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio of
29.05 and a Structural Similarity Index of 0.874 on the CelebA dataset. The
proposed method performs competently to the state-of-the-art for the image
denoising dataset, albeit not better, but still leads to faster convergence
than conventional methods. With this, L-WaveBlock emerges as a robust and
efficient tool for enhancing GAN-based image generation, demonstrating superior
convergence speed and competitive performance across multiple datasets for
image resolution, image generation and image denoising.
</p>

### Title: Accuracy of a Vision-Language Model on Challenging Medical Cases. (arXiv:2311.05591v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05591](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05591)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/2v/gpt4v-image-challenge](https://github.com/2v/gpt4v-image-challenge)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05591] Accuracy of a Vision-Language Model on Challenging Medical Cases](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05591) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Background: General-purpose large language models that utilize both text and
images have not been evaluated on a diverse array of challenging medical cases.
</p>
<p>Methods: Using 934 cases from the NEJM Image Challenge published between 2005
and 2023, we evaluated the accuracy of the recently released Generative
Pre-trained Transformer 4 with Vision model (GPT-4V) compared to human
respondents overall and stratified by question difficulty, image type, and skin
tone. We further conducted a physician evaluation of GPT-4V on 69 NEJM
clinicopathological conferences (CPCs). Analyses were conducted for models
utilizing text alone, images alone, and both text and images.
</p>
<p>Results: GPT-4V achieved an overall accuracy of 61% (95% CI, 58 to 64%)
compared to 49% (95% CI, 49 to 50%) for humans. GPT-4V outperformed humans at
all levels of difficulty and disagreement, skin tones, and image types; the
exception was radiographic images, where performance was equivalent between
GPT-4V and human respondents. Longer, more informative captions were associated
with improved performance for GPT-4V but similar performance for human
respondents. GPT-4V included the correct diagnosis in its differential for 80%
(95% CI, 68 to 88%) of CPCs when using text alone, compared to 58% (95% CI, 45
to 70%) of CPCs when using both images and text.
</p>
<p>Conclusions: GPT-4V outperformed human respondents on challenging medical
cases and was able to synthesize information from both images and text, but
performance deteriorated when images were added to highly informative text.
Overall, our results suggest that multimodal AI models may be useful in medical
diagnostic reasoning but that their accuracy may depend heavily on context.
</p>

### Title: Are cascade dialogue state tracking models speaking out of turn in spoken dialogues?. (arXiv:2311.04922v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04922](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04922)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04922] Are cascade dialogue state tracking models speaking out of turn in spoken dialogues?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04922) #generative`
* Summary: <p>In Task-Oriented Dialogue (TOD) systems, correctly updating the system's
understanding of the user's needs is key to a smooth interaction. Traditionally
TOD systems are composed of several modules that interact with one another.
While each of these components is the focus of active research communities,
their behavior in interaction can be overlooked. This paper proposes a
comprehensive analysis of the errors of state of the art systems in complex
settings such as Dialogue State Tracking which highly depends on the dialogue
context. Based on spoken MultiWoz, we identify that errors on non-categorical
slots' values are essential to address in order to bridge the gap between
spoken and chat-based dialogue systems. We explore potential solutions to
improve transcriptions and help dialogue state tracking generative models
correct such errors.
</p>

### Title: More Robots are Coming: Large Multimodal Models (ChatGPT) can Solve Visually Diverse Images of Parsons Problems. (arXiv:2311.04926v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04926](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04926)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04926] More Robots are Coming: Large Multimodal Models (ChatGPT) can Solve Visually Diverse Images of Parsons Problems](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04926) #generative`
* Summary: <p>The advent of large language models is reshaping computing education. Recent
research has demonstrated that these models can produce better explanations
than students, answer multiple-choice questions at or above the class average,
and generate code that can pass automated tests in introductory courses. These
capabilities have prompted instructors to rapidly adapt their courses and
assessment methods to accommodate changes in learning objectives and the
potential for academic integrity violations. While some scholars have advocated
for the integration of visual problems as a safeguard against the capabilities
of language models, new multimodal language models now have vision and language
capabilities that may allow them to analyze and solve visual problems. In this
paper, we evaluate the performance of two large multimodal models on visual
assignments, with a specific focus on Parsons problems presented across diverse
visual representations. Our results show that GPT-4V solved 96.7\% of these
visual problems, struggling minimally with a single Parsons problem.
Conversely, Bard performed poorly by only solving 69.2\% of problems,
struggling with common issues like hallucinations and refusals. These findings
suggest that merely transitioning to visual programming problems might not be a
panacea to issues of academic integrity in the generative AI era.
</p>

### Title: PRODIGy: a PROfile-based DIalogue Generation dataset. (arXiv:2311.05195v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05195](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05195)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05195] PRODIGy: a PROfile-based DIalogue Generation dataset](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05195) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Providing dialogue agents with a profile representation can improve their
consistency and coherence, leading to better conversations. However, current
profile-based dialogue datasets for training such agents contain either
explicit profile representations that are simple and dialogue-specific, or
implicit representations that are difficult to collect. In this work, we
propose a unified framework in which we bring together both standard and more
sophisticated profile representations by creating a new resource where each
dialogue is aligned with all possible speaker representations such as
communication style, biographies, and personality. This framework allows to
test several baselines built using generative language models with several
profile configurations. The automatic evaluation shows that profile-based
models have better generalisation capabilities than models trained on dialogues
only, both in-domain and cross-domain settings. These results are consistent
for fine-tuned models and instruction-based LLMs. Additionally, human
evaluation demonstrates a clear preference for generations consistent with both
profile and context. Finally, to account for possible privacy concerns, all
experiments are done under two configurations: inter-character and
intra-character. In the former, the LM stores the information about the
character in its internal representation, while in the latter, the LM does not
retain any personal information but uses it only at inference time.
</p>

### Title: Cognitively Inspired Components for Social Conversational Agents. (arXiv:2311.05450v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05450](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05450)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05450] Cognitively Inspired Components for Social Conversational Agents](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05450) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Current conversational agents (CA) have seen improvement in conversational
quality in recent years due to the influence of large language models (LLMs)
like GPT3. However, two key categories of problem remain. Firstly there are the
unique technical problems resulting from the approach taken in creating the CA,
such as scope with retrieval agents and the often nonsensical answers of former
generative agents. Secondly, humans perceive CAs as social actors, and as a
result expect the CA to adhere to social convention. Failure on the part of the
CA in this respect can lead to a poor interaction and even the perception of
threat by the user. As such, this paper presents a survey highlighting a
potential solution to both categories of problem through the introduction of
cognitively inspired additions to the CA. Through computational facsimiles of
semantic and episodic memory, emotion, working memory, and the ability to
learn, it is possible to address both the technical and social problems
encountered by CAs.
</p>

### Title: Leveraging Speculative Sampling and KV-Cache Optimizations Together for Generative AI using OpenVINO. (arXiv:2311.04951v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04951](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04951)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04951] Leveraging Speculative Sampling and KV-Cache Optimizations Together for Generative AI using OpenVINO](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04951) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Inference optimizations are critical for improving user experience and
reducing infrastructure costs and power consumption. In this article, we
illustrate a form of dynamic execution known as speculative sampling to reduce
the overall latency of text generation and compare it with standard
autoregressive sampling. This can be used together with model-based
optimizations (e.g. quantization) to provide an optimized solution. Both
sampling methods make use of KV caching. A Jupyter notebook and some sample
executions are provided.
</p>

### Title: Quantum Generative Modeling of Sequential Data with Trainable Token Embedding. (arXiv:2311.05050v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05050](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05050)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05050] Quantum Generative Modeling of Sequential Data with Trainable Token Embedding](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05050) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative models are a class of machine learning models that aim to learn
the underlying probability distribution of data. Unlike discriminative models,
generative models focus on capturing the data's inherent structure, allowing
them to generate new samples that resemble the original data. To fully exploit
the potential of modeling probability distributions using quantum physics, a
quantum-inspired generative model known as the Born machines have shown great
advancements in learning classical and quantum data over matrix product
state(MPS) framework. The Born machines support tractable log-likelihood,
autoregressive and mask sampling, and have shown outstanding performance in
various unsupervised learning tasks. However, much of the current research has
been centered on improving the expressive power of MPS, predominantly embedding
each token directly by a corresponding tensor index. In this study, we
generalize the embedding method into trainable quantum measurement operators
that can be simultaneously honed with MPS. Our study indicated that combined
with trainable embedding, Born machines can exhibit better performance and
learn deeper correlations from the dataset.
</p>

### Title: Social Media Bot Detection using Dropout-GAN. (arXiv:2311.05079v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05079](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05079)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05079] Social Media Bot Detection using Dropout-GAN](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05079) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Bot activity on social media platforms is a pervasive problem, undermining
the credibility of online discourse and potentially leading to cybercrime. We
propose an approach to bot detection using Generative Adversarial Networks
(GAN). We discuss how we overcome the issue of mode collapse by utilizing
multiple discriminators to train against one generator, while decoupling the
discriminator to perform social media bot detection and utilizing the generator
for data augmentation. In terms of classification accuracy, our approach
outperforms the state-of-the-art techniques in this field. We also show how the
generator in the GAN can be used to evade such a classification technique.
</p>

### Title: GeoFormer: Predicting Human Mobility using Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT). (arXiv:2311.05092v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05092](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05092)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05092] GeoFormer: Predicting Human Mobility using Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT)](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05092) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Predicting human mobility holds significant practical value, with
applications ranging from enhancing disaster risk planning to simulating
epidemic spread. In this paper, we present the GeoFormer, a decoder-only
transformer model adapted from the GPT architecture to forecast human mobility.
Our proposed model is rigorously tested in the context of the HuMob Challenge
2023 -- a competition designed to evaluate the performance of prediction models
on standardized datasets to predict human mobility. The challenge leverages two
datasets encompassing urban-scale data of 25,000 and 100,000 individuals over a
longitudinal period of 75 days. GeoFormer stands out as a top performer in the
competition, securing a place in the top-3 ranking. Its success is underscored
by performing well on both performance metrics chosen for the competition --
the GEO-BLEU and the Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) measures. The performance of
the GeoFormer on the HuMob Challenge 2023 underscores its potential to make
substantial contributions to the field of human mobility prediction, with
far-reaching implications for disaster preparedness, epidemic control, and
beyond.
</p>

### Title: Parkinson's Disease Detection through Vocal Biomarkers and Advanced Machine Learning Algorithms: A Comprehensive Study. (arXiv:2311.05435v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05435](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05435)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05435] Parkinson's Disease Detection through Vocal Biomarkers and Advanced Machine Learning Algorithms: A Comprehensive Study](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05435) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder known for
its impact on motor neurons, causing symptoms like tremors, stiffness, and gait
difficulties. This study explores the potential of vocal feature alterations in
PD patients as a means of early disease prediction. This research aims to
predict the onset of Parkinson's disease. Utilizing a variety of advanced
machine-learning algorithms, including XGBoost, LightGBM, Bagging, AdaBoost,
and Support Vector Machine, among others, the study evaluates the predictive
performance of these models using metrics such as accuracy, area under the
curve (AUC), sensitivity, and specificity. The findings of this comprehensive
analysis highlight LightGBM as the most effective model, achieving an
impressive accuracy rate of 96%, alongside a matching AUC of 96%. LightGBM
exhibited a remarkable sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 94.43%,
surpassing other machine learning algorithms in accuracy and AUC scores. Given
the complexities of Parkinson's disease and its challenges in early diagnosis,
this study underscores the significance of leveraging vocal biomarkers coupled
with advanced machine-learning techniques for precise and timely PD detection.
</p>

## anomaly
### Title: Explained anomaly detection in text reviews: Can subjective scenarios be correctly evaluated?. (arXiv:2311.04948v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04948](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04948)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04948] Explained anomaly detection in text reviews: Can subjective scenarios be correctly evaluated?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04948) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>This paper presents a pipeline to detect and explain anomalous reviews in
online platforms. The pipeline is made up of three modules and allows the
detection of reviews that do not generate value for users due to either
worthless or malicious composition. The classifications are accompanied by a
normality score and an explanation that justifies the decision made. The
pipeline's ability to solve the anomaly detection task was evaluated using
different datasets created from a large Amazon database. Additionally, a study
comparing three explainability techniques involving 241 participants was
conducted to assess the explainability module. The study aimed to measure the
impact of explanations on the respondents' ability to reproduce the
classification model and their perceived usefulness. This work can be useful to
automate tasks in review online platforms, such as those for electronic
commerce, and offers inspiration for addressing similar problems in the field
of anomaly detection in textual data. We also consider it interesting to have
carried out a human evaluation of the capacity of different explainability
techniques in a real and infrequent scenario such as the detection of anomalous
reviews, as well as to reflect on whether it is possible to explain tasks as
humanly subjective as this one.
</p>

### Title: RAGLog: Log Anomaly Detection using Retrieval Augmented Generation. (arXiv:2311.05261v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05261](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05261)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05261] RAGLog: Log Anomaly Detection using Retrieval Augmented Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05261) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>The ability to detect log anomalies from system logs is a vital activity
needed to ensure cyber resiliency of systems. It is applied for fault
identification or facilitate cyber investigation and digital forensics.
However, as logs belonging to different systems and components differ
significantly, the challenge to perform such analysis is humanly challenging
from the volume, variety and velocity of logs. This is further complicated by
the lack or unavailability of anomalous log entries to develop trained machine
learning or artificial intelligence models for such purposes. In this research
work, we explore the use of a Retrieval Augmented Large Language Model that
leverages a vector database to detect anomalies from logs. We used a Question
and Answer configuration pipeline. To the best of our knowledge, our experiment
which we called RAGLog is a novel one and the experimental results show much
promise.
</p>

### Title: ChatGPT and other Large Language Models for Cybersecurity of Smart Grid Applications. (arXiv:2311.05462v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05462](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05462)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05462] ChatGPT and other Large Language Models for Cybersecurity of Smart Grid Applications](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05462) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Cybersecurity breaches targeting electrical substations constitute a
significant threat to the integrity of the power grid, necessitating
comprehensive defense and mitigation strategies. Any anomaly in information and
communication technology (ICT) should be detected for secure communications
between devices in digital substations. This paper proposes large language
models (LLM), e.g., ChatGPT, for the cybersecurity of IEC 61850-based digital
substation communications. Multicast messages such as generic object oriented
substation event (GOOSE) and sampled value (SV) are used for case studies. The
proposed LLM-based cybersecurity framework includes for the first time data
pre-processing of communication systems and human-in-the-loop (HITL) training
(considering the cybersecurity guidelines recommended by humans). The results
show a comparative analysis of detected anomaly data carried out based on the
performance evaluation metrics for different LLMs. A hardware-in-the-loop (HIL)
testbed is used to generate and extract a dataset of IEC 61850 communications.
</p>

### Title: RAPID: Training-free Retrieval-based Log Anomaly Detection with PLM considering Token-level information. (arXiv:2311.05160v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05160](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05160)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/dsba-lab/rapid](https://github.com/dsba-lab/rapid)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05160] RAPID: Training-free Retrieval-based Log Anomaly Detection with PLM considering Token-level information](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05160) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>As the IT industry advances, system log data becomes increasingly crucial.
Many computer systems rely on log texts for management due to restricted access
to source code. The need for log anomaly detection is growing, especially in
real-world applications, but identifying anomalies in rapidly accumulating logs
remains a challenging task. Traditional deep learning-based anomaly detection
models require dataset-specific training, leading to corresponding delays.
Notably, most methods only focus on sequence-level log information, which makes
the detection of subtle anomalies harder, and often involve inference processes
that are difficult to utilize in real-time. We introduce RAPID, a model that
capitalizes on the inherent features of log data to enable anomaly detection
without training delays, ensuring real-time capability. RAPID treats logs as
natural language, extracting representations using pre-trained language models.
Given that logs can be categorized based on system context, we implement a
retrieval-based technique to contrast test logs with the most similar normal
logs. This strategy not only obviates the need for log-specific training but
also adeptly incorporates token-level information, ensuring refined and robust
detection, particularly for unseen logs. We also propose the core set
technique, which can reduce the computational cost needed for comparison.
Experimental results show that even without training on log data, RAPID
demonstrates competitive performance compared to prior models and achieves the
best performance on certain datasets. Through various research questions, we
verified its capability for real-time detection without delay.
</p>

## in-context
### Title: LooGLE: Can Long-Context Language Models Understand Long Contexts?. (arXiv:2311.04939v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04939](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04939)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/bigai-nlco/loogle](https://github.com/bigai-nlco/loogle)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04939] LooGLE: Can Long-Context Language Models Understand Long Contexts?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04939) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Large language models (LLMs), despite their impressive performance in various
language tasks, are typically limited to processing texts within context-window
size. This limitation has spurred significant research efforts to enhance LLMs'
long-context understanding with high-quality long-sequence benchmarks. However,
prior datasets in this regard suffer from shortcomings, such as short context
length compared to the context window of modern LLMs; outdated documents that
have data leakage problems; and an emphasis on short dependency tasks rather
than long dependency tasks. In this paper, we present LooGLE, a Long Context
Generic Language Evaluation benchmark for LLMs' long context understanding.
LooGLE features relatively new documents post-2022, with over 24,000 tokens per
document and 6,000 newly generated questions spanning diverse domains. Human
annotators meticulously crafted more than 1,100 high-quality question-answer
pairs to meet the long dependency requirements. These pairs underwent thorough
cross-validation, yielding the most precise assessment of LLMs' long dependency
capabilities. The evaluation of eight state-of-the-art LLMs on LooGLE revealed
key findings: (i) commercial models outperformed open-sourced models; (ii) LLMs
excelled in short dependency tasks like short question-answering and cloze
tasks but struggled with more intricate long dependency tasks; (iii) in-context
learning and chaining thoughts offered only marginal improvements; (iv)
retrieval-based techniques demonstrated substantial benefits for short
question-answering, while strategies for extending context window length had
limited impact on long context understanding. As such, LooGLE not only provides
a systematic and comprehensive evaluation schema on long-context LLMs, but also
sheds light on future development of enhanced models towards "true long-context
understanding".
</p>

### Title: LLM Augmented Hierarchical Agents. (arXiv:2311.05596v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05596](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05596)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05596] LLM Augmented Hierarchical Agents](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05596) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Solving long-horizon, temporally-extended tasks using Reinforcement Learning
(RL) is challenging, compounded by the common practice of learning without
prior knowledge (or tabula rasa learning). Humans can generate and execute
plans with temporally-extended actions and quickly learn to perform new tasks
because we almost never solve problems from scratch. We want autonomous agents
to have this same ability. Recently, LLMs have been shown to encode a
tremendous amount of knowledge about the world and to perform impressive
in-context learning and reasoning. However, using LLMs to solve real world
problems is hard because they are not grounded in the current task. In this
paper we exploit the planning capabilities of LLMs while using RL to provide
learning from the environment, resulting in a hierarchical agent that uses LLMs
to solve long-horizon tasks. Instead of completely relying on LLMs, they guide
a high-level policy, making learning significantly more sample efficient. This
approach is evaluated in simulation environments such as MiniGrid, SkillHack,
and Crafter, and on a real robot arm in block manipulation tasks. We show that
agents trained using our approach outperform other baselines methods and, once
trained, don't need access to LLMs during deployment.
</p>

## memory
### Title: Reducing the Side-Effects of Oscillations in Training of Quantized YOLO Networks. (arXiv:2311.05109v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05109](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05109)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05109] Reducing the Side-Effects of Oscillations in Training of Quantized YOLO Networks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05109) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Quantized networks use less computational and memory resources and are
suitable for deployment on edge devices. While quantization-aware training QAT
is the well-studied approach to quantize the networks at low precision, most
research focuses on over-parameterized networks for classification with limited
studies on popular and edge device friendly single-shot object detection and
semantic segmentation methods like YOLO. Moreover, majority of QAT methods rely
on Straight-through Estimator (STE) approximation which suffers from an
oscillation phenomenon resulting in sub-optimal network quantization. In this
paper, we show that it is difficult to achieve extremely low precision (4-bit
and lower) for efficient YOLO models even with SOTA QAT methods due to
oscillation issue and existing methods to overcome this problem are not
effective on these models. To mitigate the effect of oscillation, we first
propose Exponentially Moving Average (EMA) based update to the QAT model.
Further, we propose a simple QAT correction method, namely QC, that takes only
a single epoch of training after standard QAT procedure to correct the error
induced by oscillating weights and activations resulting in a more accurate
quantized model. With extensive evaluation on COCO dataset using various YOLO5
and YOLO7 variants, we show that our correction method improves quantized YOLO
networks consistently on both object detection and segmentation tasks at
low-precision (4-bit and 3-bit).
</p>

### Title: Successor Features for Efficient Multisubject Controlled Text Generation. (arXiv:2311.04921v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04921](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04921)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.04921] Successor Features for Efficient Multisubject Controlled Text Generation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04921) #memory`
* Summary: <p>While large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance in
generating fluent and realistic text, controlling the generated text so that it
exhibits properties such as safety, factuality, and non-toxicity remains
challenging. % such as DExperts, GeDi, and rectification Existing
decoding-based methods are static in terms of the dimension of control; if the
target subject is changed, they require new training. Moreover, it can quickly
become prohibitive to concurrently control multiple subjects. In this work, we
introduce SF-GEN, which is grounded in two primary concepts: successor features
(SFs) to decouple the LLM's dynamics from task-specific rewards, and language
model rectification to proportionally adjust the probability of selecting a
token based on the likelihood that the finished text becomes undesired. SF-GEN
seamlessly integrates the two to enable dynamic steering of text generation
with no need to alter the LLM's parameters. Thanks to the decoupling effect
induced by successor features, our method proves to be memory-wise and
computationally efficient for training as well as decoding, especially when
dealing with multiple target subjects. To the best of our knowledge, our
research represents the first application of successor features in text
generation. In addition to its computational efficiency, the resultant language
produced by our method is comparable to the SOTA (and outperforms baselines) in
both control measures as well as language quality, which we demonstrate through
a series of experiments in various controllable text generation tasks.
</p>

### Title: Legal-HNet: Mixing Legal Long-Context Tokens with Hartley Transform. (arXiv:2311.05089v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05089](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05089)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05089] Legal-HNet: Mixing Legal Long-Context Tokens with Hartley Transform](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05089) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Since its introduction, the transformers architecture has seen great adoption
in NLP applications, but it also has limitations. Although the self-attention
mechanism allows for generating very rich representations of the input text,
its effectiveness may be limited in specialized domains such as legal, where,
for example, language models often have to process very long texts. In this
paper, we explore alternatives to replace the attention-based layers with
simpler token-mixing mechanisms: Hartley and Fourier transforms. Using these
non-parametric techniques, we train models with long input documents from
scratch in the legal domain setting. We also introduce a new hybrid Seq2Seq
architecture, a no-attention-based encoder connected with an attention-based
decoder, which performs quite well on existing summarization tasks with much
less compute and memory requirements. We believe that similar, if not better
performance, as in the case of long correlations of abstractive text
summarization tasks, can be achieved by adopting these simpler infrastructures.
This not only makes training models from scratch accessible to more people, but
also contributes to the reduction of the carbon footprint during training.
</p>

### Title: Modelling prospective memory and resilient situated communications via Wizard of Oz. (arXiv:2311.05268v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05268](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05268)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05268] Modelling prospective memory and resilient situated communications via Wizard of Oz](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05268) #memory`
* Summary: <p>This abstract presents a scenario for human-robot action in a home setting
involving an older adult and a robot. The scenario is designed to explore the
envisioned modelling of memory for communication with a socially assistive
robots (SAR). The scenario will enable the gathering of data on failures of
speech technology and human-robot communication involving shared memory that
may occur during daily activities such as a music-listening activity.
</p>

### Title: Embedded Platform Patterns for Distributed and Secure Logging. (arXiv:2311.05037v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05037](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05037)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05037] Embedded Platform Patterns for Distributed and Secure Logging](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05037) #memory`
* Summary: <p>With the advent of modern embedded systems, logging as a process is becoming
more and more prevalent for diagnostic and analytic services. Traditionally,
storage and managing of the logged data are generally kept as a part of one
entity together with the main logic components. In systems that implement
network connections, this activity is usually handled over a remote device.
However, enabling remote connection is still considered a limiting factor for
many embedded devices due to the demanding production cost. A significant
challenge is presented to vendors who need to decide how the data will be
extracted and handled for an embedded platform during the design concept phase.
It is generally desirable that logging memory modules are able to be addressed
as separate units. These devices need to be appropriately secured and
verifiable on a different system since data compromise can lead to enormous
privacy and even financial losses. In this paper, we present two patterns.
First, a pattern that allows flexible logging operation design in terms of
module and interface responsibility separation. Second, a pattern for the
design of secure logging processes during the utilization of constrained
embedded devices. The introduced patterns fulfil the following conditions: (i)
flexibility, design is independent of the chip vendors making the logging
memory modules easily replaceable, (ii) self-sufficiency, every logging
controller is maintained as a separate entity in a decentralized topology,
(iii) security, through providing authenticity, confidentiality, and integrity
by means of using a dedicated security module.
</p>

### Title: Rust for Embedded Systems: Current State, Challenges and Open Problems. (arXiv:2311.05063v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05063](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05063)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05063] Rust for Embedded Systems: Current State, Challenges and Open Problems](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05063) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Embedded software is used in safety-critical systems such as medical devices
and autonomous vehicles, where software defects, including security
vulnerabilities, have severe consequences. Most embedded codebases are
developed in unsafe languages, specifically C/C++, and are riddled with memory
safety vulnerabilities. To prevent such vulnerabilities, RUST, a performant
memory-safe systems language, provides an optimal choice for developing
embedded software. RUST interoperability enables developing RUST applications
on top of existing C codebases. Despite this, even the most resourceful
organizations continue to develop embedded software in C/C++. This paper
performs the first systematic study to holistically understand the current
state and challenges of using RUST for embedded systems. Our study is organized
across three research questions. We collected a dataset of 2,836 RUST embedded
software spanning various categories and 5 Static Application Security Testing
( SAST) tools. We performed a systematic analysis of our dataset and surveys
with 225 developers to investigate our research questions. We found that
existing RUST software support is inadequate, SAST tools cannot handle certain
features of RUST embedded software, resulting in failures, and the prevalence
of advanced types in existing RUST software makes it challenging to engineer
interoperable code. In addition, we found various challenges faced by
developers in using RUST for embedded systems development.
</p>

### Title: Finding Software Vulnerabilities in Open-Source C Projects via Bounded Model Checking. (arXiv:2311.05281v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05281](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05281)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/janislley/lsverifier](https://github.com/janislley/lsverifier)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05281] Finding Software Vulnerabilities in Open-Source C Projects via Bounded Model Checking](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05281) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Computer-based systems have solved several domain problems, including
industrial, military, education, and wearable. Nevertheless, such arrangements
need high-quality software to guarantee security and safety as both are
mandatory for modern software products. We advocate that bounded model-checking
techniques can efficiently detect vulnerabilities in general software systems.
However, such an approach struggles to scale up and verify extensive code
bases. Consequently, we have developed and evaluated a methodology to verify
large software systems using a state-of-the-art bounded model checker. In
particular, we pre-process input source-code files and guide the respective
model checker to explore them systematically. Moreover, the proposed scheme
includes a function-wise prioritization strategy, which readily provides
results for code entities according to a scale of importance. Experimental
results using a real implementation of the proposed methodology show that it
can efficiently verify large software systems. Besides, it presented low peak
memory allocation when executed. We have evaluated our approach by verifying
twelve popular open-source C projects, where we have found real software
vulnerabilities that their developers confirmed.
</p>

### Title: Efficient Compression of Overparameterized Deep Models through Low-Dimensional Learning Dynamics. (arXiv:2311.05061v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05061](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05061)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/soominkwon/comp-deep-nets](https://github.com/soominkwon/comp-deep-nets)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05061] Efficient Compression of Overparameterized Deep Models through Low-Dimensional Learning Dynamics](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05061) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Overparameterized models have proven to be powerful tools for solving various
machine learning tasks. However, overparameterization often leads to a
substantial increase in computational and memory costs, which in turn requires
extensive resources to train. In this work, we aim to reduce this complexity by
studying the learning dynamics of overparameterized deep networks. By
extensively studying its learning dynamics, we unveil that the weight matrices
of various architectures exhibit a low-dimensional structure. This finding
implies that we can compress the networks by reducing the training to a small
subspace. We take a step in developing a principled approach for compressing
deep networks by studying deep linear models. We demonstrate that the principal
components of deep linear models are fitted incrementally but within a small
subspace, and use these insights to compress deep linear networks by decreasing
the width of its intermediate layers. Remarkably, we observe that with a
particular choice of initialization, the compressed network converges faster
than the original network, consistently yielding smaller recovery errors
throughout all iterations of gradient descent. We substantiate this observation
by developing a theory focused on the deep matrix factorization problem, and by
conducting empirical evaluations on deep matrix sensing. Finally, we
demonstrate how our compressed model can enhance the utility of deep nonlinear
models. Overall, we observe that our compression technique accelerates the
training process by more than 2x, without compromising model quality.
</p>

### Title: RepQ: Generalizing Quantization-Aware Training for Re-Parametrized Architectures. (arXiv:2311.05317v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05317](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05317)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05317] RepQ: Generalizing Quantization-Aware Training for Re-Parametrized Architectures](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05317) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Existing neural networks are memory-consuming and computationally intensive,
making deploying them challenging in resource-constrained environments.
However, there are various methods to improve their efficiency. Two such
methods are quantization, a well-known approach for network compression, and
re-parametrization, an emerging technique designed to improve model
performance. Although both techniques have been studied individually, there has
been limited research on their simultaneous application. To address this gap,
we propose a novel approach called RepQ, which applies quantization to
re-parametrized networks. Our method is based on the insight that the test
stage weights of an arbitrary re-parametrized layer can be presented as a
differentiable function of trainable parameters. We enable quantization-aware
training by applying quantization on top of this function. RepQ generalizes
well to various re-parametrized models and outperforms the baseline method LSQ
quantization scheme in all experiments.
</p>

### Title: Exploiting Neural-Network Statistics for Low-Power DNN Inference. (arXiv:2311.05557v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05557](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05557)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05557] Exploiting Neural-Network Statistics for Low-Power DNN Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05557) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Specialized compute blocks have been developed for efficient DNN execution.
However, due to the vast amount of data and parameter movements, the
interconnects and on-chip memories form another bottleneck, impairing power and
performance. This work addresses this bottleneck by contributing a low-power
technique for edge-AI inference engines that combines overhead-free coding with
a statistical analysis of the data and parameters of neural networks. Our
approach reduces the interconnect and memory power consumption by up to 80% for
state-of-the-art benchmarks while providing additional power savings for the
compute blocks by up to 39%. These power improvements are achieved with no loss
of accuracy and negligible hardware cost.
</p>

### Title: Efficient Parallelization Layouts for Large-Scale Distributed Model Training. (arXiv:2311.05610v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05610](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05610)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/aleph-alpha/neurips-want-submission-efficient-parallelization-layouts](https://github.com/aleph-alpha/neurips-want-submission-efficient-parallelization-layouts)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05610] Efficient Parallelization Layouts for Large-Scale Distributed Model Training](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05610) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Efficiently training large language models requires parallelizing across
hundreds of hardware accelerators and invoking various compute and memory
optimizations. When combined, many of these strategies have complex
interactions regarding the final training efficiency. Prior work tackling this
problem did not have access to the latest set of optimizations, such as
FlashAttention or sequence parallelism. In this work, we conduct a
comprehensive ablation study of possible training configurations for large
language models. We distill this large study into several key recommendations
for the most efficient training. For instance, we find that using a micro-batch
size of 1 usually enables the most efficient training layouts. Larger
micro-batch sizes necessitate activation checkpointing or higher degrees of
model parallelism and also lead to larger pipeline bubbles. Our most efficient
configurations enable us to achieve state-of-the-art training efficiency
results over a range of model sizes, most notably a Model FLOPs utilization of
70.5% when training a 13B model.
</p>

## few-shot
### Title: Cross-modal Prompts: Adapting Large Pre-trained Models for Audio-Visual Downstream Tasks. (arXiv:2311.05152v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05152](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05152)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/haoyi-duan/dg-sct](https://github.com/haoyi-duan/dg-sct)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05152] Cross-modal Prompts: Adapting Large Pre-trained Models for Audio-Visual Downstream Tasks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05152) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, the deployment of large-scale pre-trained models in
audio-visual downstream tasks has yielded remarkable outcomes. However, these
models, primarily trained on single-modality unconstrained datasets, still
encounter challenges in feature extraction for multi-modal tasks, leading to
suboptimal performance. This limitation arises due to the introduction of
irrelevant modality-specific information during encoding, which adversely
affects the performance of downstream tasks. To address this challenge, this
paper proposes a novel Dual-Guided Spatial-Channel-Temporal (DG-SCT) attention
mechanism. This mechanism leverages audio and visual modalities as soft prompts
to dynamically adjust the parameters of pre-trained models based on the current
multi-modal input features. Specifically, the DG-SCT module incorporates
trainable cross-modal interaction layers into pre-trained audio-visual
encoders, allowing adaptive extraction of crucial information from the current
modality across spatial, channel, and temporal dimensions, while preserving the
frozen parameters of large-scale pre-trained models. Experimental evaluations
demonstrate that our proposed model achieves state-of-the-art results across
multiple downstream tasks, including AVE, AVVP, AVS, and AVQA. Furthermore, our
model exhibits promising performance in challenging few-shot and zero-shot
scenarios. The source code and pre-trained models are available at
https://github.com/haoyi-duan/DG-SCT.
</p>

### Title: Characterizing Large Language Models as Rationalizers of Knowledge-intensive Tasks. (arXiv:2311.05085v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05085](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05085)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05085] Characterizing Large Language Models as Rationalizers of Knowledge-intensive Tasks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05085) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Large language models (LLMs) are proficient at generating fluent text with
minimal task-specific supervision. Yet, their ability to provide well-grounded
rationalizations for knowledge-intensive tasks remains under-explored. Such
tasks, like commonsense multiple-choice questions, require rationales based on
world knowledge to support predictions and refute alternate options. We
consider the task of generating knowledge-guided rationalization in natural
language by using expert-written examples in a few-shot manner. Surprisingly,
crowd-workers preferred knowledge-grounded rationales over crowdsourced
rationalizations, citing their factuality, sufficiency, and comprehensive
refutations. Although LLMs-generated rationales were preferable, further
improvements in conciseness and novelty are required. In another study, we show
how rationalization of incorrect model predictions erodes humans' trust in
LLM-generated rationales. Motivated by these observations, we create a
two-stage pipeline to review task predictions and eliminate potential incorrect
decisions before rationalization, enabling trustworthy rationale generation.
</p>

### Title: Large Language Models and Prompt Engineering for Biomedical Query Focused Multi-Document Summarisation. (arXiv:2311.05169v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05169](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05169)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05169] Large Language Models and Prompt Engineering for Biomedical Query Focused Multi-Document Summarisation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05169) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>This paper reports on the use of prompt engineering and GPT-3.5 for
biomedical query-focused multi-document summarisation. Using GPT-3.5 and
appropriate prompts, our system achieves top ROUGE-F1 results in the task of
obtaining short-paragraph-sized answers to biomedical questions in the 2023
BioASQ Challenge (BioASQ 11b). This paper confirms what has been observed in
other domains: 1) Prompts that incorporated few-shot samples generally improved
on their counterpart zero-shot variants; 2) The largest improvement was
achieved by retrieval augmented generation. The fact that these prompts allow
our top runs to rank within the top two runs of BioASQ 11b demonstrate the
power of using adequate prompts for Large Language Models in general, and
GPT-3.5 in particular, for query-focused summarisation.
</p>

### Title: Mirror: A Universal Framework for Various Information Extraction Tasks. (arXiv:2311.05419v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05419](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05419)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/Spico197/Mirror](https://github.com/Spico197/Mirror)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.05419] Mirror: A Universal Framework for Various Information Extraction Tasks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05419) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Sharing knowledge between information extraction tasks has always been a
challenge due to the diverse data formats and task variations. Meanwhile, this
divergence leads to information waste and increases difficulties in building
complex applications in real scenarios. Recent studies often formulate IE tasks
as a triplet extraction problem. However, such a paradigm does not support
multi-span and n-ary extraction, leading to weak versatility. To this end, we
reorganize IE problems into unified multi-slot tuples and propose a universal
framework for various IE tasks, namely Mirror. Specifically, we recast existing
IE tasks as a multi-span cyclic graph extraction problem and devise a
non-autoregressive graph decoding algorithm to extract all spans in a single
step. It is worth noting that this graph structure is incredibly versatile, and
it supports not only complex IE tasks, but also machine reading comprehension
and classification tasks. We manually construct a corpus containing 57 datasets
for model pretraining, and conduct experiments on 30 datasets across 8
downstream tasks. The experimental results demonstrate that our model has
decent compatibility and outperforms or reaches competitive performance with
SOTA systems under few-shot and zero-shot settings. The code, model weights,
and pretraining corpus are available at https://github.com/Spico197/Mirror .
</p>

