## diffusion
### Title: Gaussian3Diff: 3D Gaussian Diffusion for 3D Full Head Synthesis and Editing. (arXiv:2312.03763v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03763](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03763)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03763] Gaussian3Diff: 3D Gaussian Diffusion for 3D Full Head Synthesis and Editing](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03763) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We present a novel framework for generating photorealistic 3D human head and
subsequently manipulating and reposing them with remarkable flexibility. The
proposed approach leverages an implicit function representation of 3D human
heads, employing 3D Gaussians anchored on a parametric face model. To enhance
representational capabilities and encode spatial information, we embed a
lightweight tri-plane payload within each Gaussian rather than directly storing
color and opacity. Additionally, we parameterize the Gaussians in a 2D UV space
via a 3DMM, enabling effective utilization of the diffusion model for 3D head
avatar generation. Our method facilitates the creation of diverse and realistic
3D human heads with fine-grained editing over facial features and expressions.
Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
</p>

### Title: DreamInpainter: Text-Guided Subject-Driven Image Inpainting with Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2312.03771v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03771](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03771)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03771] DreamInpainter: Text-Guided Subject-Driven Image Inpainting with Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03771) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>This study introduces Text-Guided Subject-Driven Image Inpainting, a novel
task that combines text and exemplar images for image inpainting. While both
text and exemplar images have been used independently in previous efforts,
their combined utilization remains unexplored. Simultaneously accommodating
both conditions poses a significant challenge due to the inherent balance
required between editability and subject fidelity. To tackle this challenge, we
propose a two-step approach DreamInpainter. First, we compute dense subject
features to ensure accurate subject replication. Then, we employ a
discriminative token selection module to eliminate redundant subject details,
preserving the subject's identity while allowing changes according to other
conditions such as mask shape and text prompts. Additionally, we introduce a
decoupling regularization technique to enhance text control in the presence of
exemplar images. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance
of our method in terms of visual quality, identity preservation, and text
control, showcasing its effectiveness in the context of text-guided
subject-driven image inpainting.
</p>

### Title: DiffusionAtlas: High-Fidelity Consistent Diffusion Video Editing. (arXiv:2312.03772v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03772](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03772)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03772] DiffusionAtlas: High-Fidelity Consistent Diffusion Video Editing](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03772) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We present a diffusion-based video editing framework, namely DiffusionAtlas,
which can achieve both frame consistency and high fidelity in editing video
object appearance. Despite the success in image editing, diffusion models still
encounter significant hindrances when it comes to video editing due to the
challenge of maintaining spatiotemporal consistency in the object's appearance
across frames. On the other hand, atlas-based techniques allow propagating
edits on the layered representations consistently back to frames. However, they
often struggle to create editing effects that adhere correctly to the
user-provided textual or visual conditions due to the limitation of editing the
texture atlas on a fixed UV mapping field. Our method leverages a
visual-textual diffusion model to edit objects directly on the diffusion
atlases, ensuring coherent object identity across frames. We design a loss term
with atlas-based constraints and build a pretrained text-driven diffusion model
as pixel-wise guidance for refining shape distortions and correcting texture
deviations. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our method
outperforms state-of-the-art methods in achieving consistent high-fidelity
video-object editing.
</p>

### Title: FAAC: Facial Animation Generation with Anchor Frame and Conditional Control for Superior Fidelity and Editability. (arXiv:2312.03775v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03775](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03775)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03775] FAAC: Facial Animation Generation with Anchor Frame and Conditional Control for Superior Fidelity and Editability](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03775) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Over recent years, diffusion models have facilitated significant advancements
in video generation. Yet, the creation of face-related videos still confronts
issues such as low facial fidelity, lack of frame consistency, limited
editability and uncontrollable human poses. To address these challenges, we
introduce a facial animation generation method that enhances both face identity
fidelity and editing capabilities while ensuring frame consistency. This
approach incorporates the concept of an anchor frame to counteract the
degradation of generative ability in original text-to-image models when
incorporating a motion module. We propose two strategies towards this
objective: training-free and training-based anchor frame methods. Our method's
efficacy has been validated on multiple representative DreamBooth and LoRA
models, delivering substantial improvements over the original outcomes in terms
of facial fidelity, text-to-image editability, and video motion. Moreover, we
introduce conditional control using a 3D parametric face model to capture
accurate facial movements and expressions. This solution augments the creative
possibilities for facial animation generation through the integration of
multiple control signals. For additional samples, please visit
https://anonymous.4open.science/r/FAAC.
</p>

### Title: AnimateZero: Video Diffusion Models are Zero-Shot Image Animators. (arXiv:2312.03793v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03793](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03793)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/vvictoryuki/animatezero](https://github.com/vvictoryuki/animatezero)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03793] AnimateZero: Video Diffusion Models are Zero-Shot Image Animators](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03793) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Large-scale text-to-video (T2V) diffusion models have great progress in
recent years in terms of visual quality, motion and temporal consistency.
However, the generation process is still a black box, where all attributes
(e.g., appearance, motion) are learned and generated jointly without precise
control ability other than rough text descriptions. Inspired by image animation
which decouples the video as one specific appearance with the corresponding
motion, we propose AnimateZero to unveil the pre-trained text-to-video
diffusion model, i.e., AnimateDiff, and provide more precise appearance and
motion control abilities for it. For appearance control, we borrow intermediate
latents and their features from the text-to-image (T2I) generation for ensuring
the generated first frame is equal to the given generated image. For temporal
control, we replace the global temporal attention of the original T2V model
with our proposed positional-corrected window attention to ensure other frames
align with the first frame well. Empowered by the proposed methods, AnimateZero
can successfully control the generating progress without further training. As a
zero-shot image animator for given images, AnimateZero also enables multiple
new applications, including interactive video generation and real image
animation. The detailed experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the
proposed method in both T2V and related applications.
</p>

### Title: AnimatableDreamer: Text-Guided Non-rigid 3D Model Generation and Reconstruction with Canonical Score Distillation. (arXiv:2312.03795v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03795](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03795)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03795] AnimatableDreamer: Text-Guided Non-rigid 3D Model Generation and Reconstruction with Canonical Score Distillation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03795) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Text-to-3D model adaptations have advanced static 3D model quality, but
sequential 3D model generation, particularly for animatable objects with large
motions, is still scarce. Our work proposes AnimatableDreamer, a text-to-4D
generation framework capable of generating diverse categories of non-rigid
objects while adhering to the object motions extracted from a monocular video.
At its core, AnimatableDreamer is equipped with our novel optimization design
dubbed Canonical Score Distillation (CSD), which simplifies the generation
dimension from 4D to 3D by denoising over different frames in the time-varying
camera spaces while conducting the distillation process in a unique canonical
space shared per video. Concretely, CSD ensures that score gradients
back-propagate to the canonical space through differentiable warping, hence
guaranteeing the time-consistent generation and maintaining morphological
plausibility across different poses. By lifting the 3D generator to 4D with
warping functions, AnimatableDreamer offers a novel perspective on non-rigid 3D
model generation and reconstruction. Besides, with inductive knowledge from a
multi-view consistent diffusion model, CSD regularizes reconstruction from
novel views, thus cyclically enhancing the generation process. Extensive
experiments demonstrate the capability of our method in generating
high-flexibility text-guided 3D models from the monocular video, while also
showing improved reconstruction performance over typical non-rigid
reconstruction methods. Project page https://AnimatableDreamer.github.io.
</p>

### Title: AVID: Any-Length Video Inpainting with Diffusion Model. (arXiv:2312.03816v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03816](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03816)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03816] AVID: Any-Length Video Inpainting with Diffusion Model](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03816) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent advances in diffusion models have successfully enabled text-guided
image inpainting. While it seems straightforward to extend such editing
capability into video domain, there has been fewer works regarding text-guided
video inpainting. Given a video, a masked region at its initial frame, and an
editing prompt, it requires a model to do infilling at each frame following the
editing guidance while keeping the out-of-mask region intact. There are three
main challenges in text-guided video inpainting: ($i$) temporal consistency of
the edited video, ($ii$) supporting different inpainting types at different
structural fidelity level, and ($iii$) dealing with variable video length. To
address these challenges, we introduce Any-Length Video Inpainting with
Diffusion Model, dubbed as AVID. At its core, our model is equipped with
effective motion modules and adjustable structure guidance, for fixed-length
video inpainting. Building on top of that, we propose a novel Temporal
MultiDiffusion sampling pipeline with an middle-frame attention guidance
mechanism, facilitating the generation of videos with any desired duration. Our
comprehensive experiments show our model can robustly deal with various
inpainting types at different video duration range, with high quality. More
visualization results is made publicly available at
https://zhang-zx.github.io/AVID/ .
</p>

### Title: Diffusion Illusions: Hiding Images in Plain Sight. (arXiv:2312.03817v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03817](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03817)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03817] Diffusion Illusions: Hiding Images in Plain Sight](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03817) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We explore the problem of computationally generating special `prime' images
that produce optical illusions when physically arranged and viewed in a certain
way. First, we propose a formal definition for this problem. Next, we introduce
Diffusion Illusions, the first comprehensive pipeline designed to automatically
generate a wide range of these illusions. Specifically, we both adapt the
existing `score distillation loss' and propose a new `dream target loss' to
optimize a group of differentially parametrized prime images, using a frozen
text-to-image diffusion model. We study three types of illusions, each where
the prime images are arranged in different ways and optimized using the
aforementioned losses such that images derived from them align with user-chosen
text prompts or images. We conduct comprehensive experiments on these illusions
and verify the effectiveness of our proposed method qualitatively and
quantitatively. Additionally, we showcase the successful physical fabrication
of our illusions -- as they are all designed to work in the real world. Our
code and examples are publicly available at our interactive project website:
https://diffusionillusions.com
</p>

### Title: LEGO: Learning EGOcentric Action Frame Generation via Visual Instruction Tuning. (arXiv:2312.03849v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03849](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03849)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03849] LEGO: Learning EGOcentric Action Frame Generation via Visual Instruction Tuning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03849) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Generating instructional images of human daily actions from an egocentric
viewpoint serves a key step towards efficient skill transfer. In this paper, we
introduce a novel problem -- egocentric action frame generation. The goal is to
synthesize the action frame conditioning on the user prompt question and an
input egocentric image that captures user's environment. Notably, existing
egocentric datasets lack the detailed annotations that describe the execution
of actions. Additionally, the diffusion-based image manipulation models fail to
control the state change of an action within the corresponding egocentric image
pixel space. To this end, we finetune a visual large language model (VLLM) via
visual instruction tuning for curating the enriched action descriptions to
address our proposed problem. Moreover, we propose to Learn EGOcentric (LEGO)
action frame generation using image and text embeddings from VLLM as additional
conditioning. We validate our proposed model on two egocentric datasets --
Ego4D and Epic-Kitchens. Our experiments show prominent improvement over prior
image manipulation models in both quantitative and qualitative evaluation. We
also conduct detailed ablation studies and analysis to provide insights on our
method.
</p>

### Title: Inpaint3D: 3D Scene Content Generation using 2D Inpainting Diffusion. (arXiv:2312.03869v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03869](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03869)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03869] Inpaint3D: 3D Scene Content Generation using 2D Inpainting Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03869) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>This paper presents a novel approach to inpainting 3D regions of a scene,
given masked multi-view images, by distilling a 2D diffusion model into a
learned 3D scene representation (e.g. a NeRF). Unlike 3D generative methods
that explicitly condition the diffusion model on camera pose or multi-view
information, our diffusion model is conditioned only on a single masked 2D
image. Nevertheless, we show that this 2D diffusion model can still serve as a
generative prior in a 3D multi-view reconstruction problem where we optimize a
NeRF using a combination of score distillation sampling and NeRF reconstruction
losses. Predicted depth is used as additional supervision to encourage accurate
geometry. We compare our approach to 3D inpainting methods that focus on object
removal. Because our method can generate content to fill any 3D masked region,
we additionally demonstrate 3D object completion, 3D object replacement, and 3D
scene completion.
</p>

### Title: Controllable Human-Object Interaction Synthesis. (arXiv:2312.03913v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03913](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03913)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03913] Controllable Human-Object Interaction Synthesis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03913) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Synthesizing semantic-aware, long-horizon, human-object interaction is
critical to simulate realistic human behaviors. In this work, we address the
challenging problem of generating synchronized object motion and human motion
guided by language descriptions in 3D scenes. We propose Controllable
Human-Object Interaction Synthesis (CHOIS), an approach that generates object
motion and human motion simultaneously using a conditional diffusion model
given a language description, initial object and human states, and sparse
object waypoints. While language descriptions inform style and intent,
waypoints ground the motion in the scene and can be effectively extracted using
high-level planning methods. Naively applying a diffusion model fails to
predict object motion aligned with the input waypoints and cannot ensure the
realism of interactions that require precise hand-object contact and
appropriate contact grounded by the floor. To overcome these problems, we
introduce an object geometry loss as additional supervision to improve the
matching between generated object motion and input object waypoints. In
addition, we design guidance terms to enforce contact constraints during the
sampling process of the trained diffusion model.
</p>

### Title: Adapting HouseDiffusion for conditional Floor Plan generation on Modified Swiss Dwellings dataset. (arXiv:2312.03938v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03938](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03938)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03938] Adapting HouseDiffusion for conditional Floor Plan generation on Modified Swiss Dwellings dataset](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03938) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Automated floor plan generation has recently gained momentum with several
methods that have been proposed. The CVAAD Floor Plan Auto-Completion workshop
challenge introduced MSD, a new dataset that includes existing structural walls
of the building as an additional input constraint. This technical report
presents an approach for extending a recent work, HouseDiffusion
(<a href="http://export.arxiv.org/abs/2211.13287">arXiv:2211.13287</a> [cs.CV]), to the MSD dataset. The adaption involves modifying
the model's transformer layers to condition on a set of wall lines. The report
introduces a pre-processing pipeline to extract wall lines from the binary mask
of the building structure provided as input. Additionally, it was found that a
data processing procedure that simplifies all room polygons to rectangles leads
to better performance. This indicates that future work should explore better
representations of variable-length polygons in diffusion models. The code will
be made available at a later date.
</p>

### Title: Style Transfer to Calvin and Hobbes comics using Stable Diffusion. (arXiv:2312.03993v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03993](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03993)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03993] Style Transfer to Calvin and Hobbes comics using Stable Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03993) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>This project report summarizes our journey to perform stable diffusion
fine-tuning on a dataset containing Calvin and Hobbes comics. The purpose is to
convert any given input image into the comic style of Calvin and Hobbes,
essentially performing style transfer. We train stable-diffusion-v1.5 using Low
Rank Adaptation (LoRA) to efficiently speed up the fine-tuning process. The
diffusion itself is handled by a Variational Autoencoder (VAE), which is a
U-net. Our results were visually appealing for the amount of training time and
the quality of input data that went into training.
</p>

### Title: Stable diffusion for Data Augmentation in COCO and Weed Datasets. (arXiv:2312.03996v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03996](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03996)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03996] Stable diffusion for Data Augmentation in COCO and Weed Datasets](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03996) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Generative models have increasingly impacted relative tasks ranging from
image revision and object detection in computer vision to interior design and
idea illustration in more general fields. Stable diffusion is an outstanding
model series that paves the way for producing high-resolution images with
thorough details from text prompts or reference images. It will be an
interesting topic about how to leverage the capability of stable diffusion to
elevate the image variations of certain categories (e.g., vehicles, humans, and
daily objects); particularly, it has the potential to gain improvements for
small datasets with image-sparse categories. This study utilized seven
categories in the popular COCO dataset and three widespread weed species in
Michigan to evaluate the efficiency of a recent version of stable diffusion. In
detail, Stable diffusion was used to generate synthetic images belonging to
these classes; then, YOLOv8 models were trained based on these synthetic
images, whose performance was compared to the models trained on original
images. In addition, several techniques (e.g., Image-to-image translation,
Dreambooth, ControlNet) of Stable diffusion were leveraged for image generation
with different focuses. In spite of the overall results being disappointing,
promising results have been achieved in some classes, illustrating the
potential of stable diffusion models to improve the performance of detection
models, which represent more helpful information being conveyed into the models
by the generated images. This seminal study may expedite the adaption of stable
diffusion models to classification and detection tasks in different fields.
</p>

### Title: KOALA: Self-Attention Matters in Knowledge Distillation of Latent Diffusion Models for Memory-Efficient and Fast Image Synthesis. (arXiv:2312.04005v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04005](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04005)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04005] KOALA: Self-Attention Matters in Knowledge Distillation of Latent Diffusion Models for Memory-Efficient and Fast Image Synthesis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04005) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Stable diffusion is the mainstay of the text-to-image (T2I) synthesis in the
community due to its generation performance and open-source nature. Recently,
Stable Diffusion XL (SDXL), the successor of stable diffusion, has received a
lot of attention due to its significant performance improvements with a higher
resolution of 1024x1024 and a larger model. However, its increased computation
cost and model size require higher-end hardware(e.g., bigger VRAM GPU) for
end-users, incurring higher costs of operation. To address this problem, in
this work, we propose an efficient latent diffusion model for text-to-image
synthesis obtained by distilling the knowledge of SDXL. To this end, we first
perform an in-depth analysis of the denoising U-Net in SDXL, which is the main
bottleneck of the model, and then design a more efficient U-Net based on the
analysis. Secondly, we explore how to effectively distill the generation
capability of SDXL into an efficient U-Net and eventually identify four
essential factors, the core of which is that self-attention is the most
important part. With our efficient U-Net and self-attention-based knowledge
distillation strategy, we build our efficient T2I models, called KOALA-1B &amp;
-700M, while reducing the model size up to 54% and 69% of the original SDXL
model. In particular, the KOALA-700M is more than twice as fast as SDXL while
still retaining a decent generation quality. We hope that due to its balanced
speed-performance tradeoff, our KOALA models can serve as a cost-effective
alternative to SDXL in resource-constrained environments.
</p>

### Title: DiffusionPhase: Motion Diffusion in Frequency Domain. (arXiv:2312.04036v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04036](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04036)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04036] DiffusionPhase: Motion Diffusion in Frequency Domain](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04036) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>In this study, we introduce a learning-based method for generating
high-quality human motion sequences from text descriptions (e.g., ``A person
walks forward"). Existing techniques struggle with motion diversity and smooth
transitions in generating arbitrary-length motion sequences, due to limited
text-to-motion datasets and the pose representations used that often lack
expressiveness or compactness. To address these issues, we propose the first
method for text-conditioned human motion generation in the frequency domain of
motions. We develop a network encoder that converts the motion space into a
compact yet expressive parameterized phase space with high-frequency details
encoded, capturing the local periodicity of motions in time and space with high
accuracy. We also introduce a conditional diffusion model for predicting
periodic motion parameters based on text descriptions and a start pose,
efficiently achieving smooth transitions between motion sequences associated
with different text descriptions. Experiments demonstrate that our approach
outperforms current methods in generating a broader variety of high-quality
motions, and synthesizing long sequences with natural transitions.
</p>

### Title: MTVG : Multi-text Video Generation with Text-to-Video Models. (arXiv:2312.04086v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04086](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04086)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04086] MTVG : Multi-text Video Generation with Text-to-Video Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04086) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recently, video generation has attracted massive attention and yielded
noticeable outcomes. Concerning the characteristics of video, multi-text
conditioning incorporating sequential events is necessary for next-step video
generation. In this work, we propose a novel multi-text video generation~(MTVG)
by directly utilizing a pre-trained diffusion-based text-to-video~(T2V)
generation model without additional fine-tuning. To generate consecutive video
segments, visual consistency generated by distinct prompts is necessary with
diverse variations, such as motion and content-related transitions. Our
proposed MTVG includes Dynamic Noise and Last Frame Aware Inversion which
reinitialize the noise latent to preserve visual coherence between videos of
different prompts and prevent repetitive motion or contents. Furthermore, we
present Structure Guiding Sampling to maintain the global appearance across the
frames in a single video clip, where we leverage iterative latent updates
across the preceding frame. Additionally, our Prompt Generator allows for
arbitrary format of text conditions consisting of diverse events. As a result,
our extensive experiments, including diverse transitions of descriptions,
demonstrate that our proposed methods show superior generated outputs in terms
of semantically coherent and temporally seamless video.Video examples are
available in our project page: https://kuai-lab.github.io/mtvg-page.
</p>

### Title: Diffusing Colors: Image Colorization with Text Guided Diffusion. (arXiv:2312.04145v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04145](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04145)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04145] Diffusing Colors: Image Colorization with Text Guided Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04145) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>The colorization of grayscale images is a complex and subjective task with
significant challenges. Despite recent progress in employing large-scale
datasets with deep neural networks, difficulties with controllability and
visual quality persist. To tackle these issues, we present a novel image
colorization framework that utilizes image diffusion techniques with granular
text prompts. This integration not only produces colorization outputs that are
semantically appropriate but also greatly improves the level of control users
have over the colorization process. Our method provides a balance between
automation and control, outperforming existing techniques in terms of visual
quality and semantic coherence. We leverage a pretrained generative Diffusion
Model, and show that we can finetune it for the colorization task without
losing its generative power or attention to text prompts. Moreover, we present
a novel CLIP-based ranking model that evaluates color vividness, enabling
automatic selection of the most suitable level of vividness based on the
specific scene semantics. Our approach holds potential particularly for color
enhancement and historical image colorization.
</p>

### Title: Detecting and Restoring Non-Standard Hands in Stable Diffusion Generated Images. (arXiv:2312.04236v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04236](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04236)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04236] Detecting and Restoring Non-Standard Hands in Stable Diffusion Generated Images](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04236) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We introduce a pipeline to address anatomical inaccuracies in Stable
Diffusion generated hand images. The initial step involves constructing a
specialized dataset, focusing on hand anomalies, to train our models
effectively. A finetuned detection model is pivotal for precise identification
of these anomalies, ensuring targeted correction. Body pose estimation aids in
understanding hand orientation and positioning, crucial for accurate anomaly
correction. The integration of ControlNet and InstructPix2Pix facilitates
sophisticated inpainting and pixel-level transformation, respectively. This
dual approach allows for high-fidelity image adjustments. This comprehensive
approach ensures the generation of images with anatomically accurate hands,
closely resembling real-world appearances. Our experimental results demonstrate
the pipeline's efficacy in enhancing hand image realism in Stable Diffusion
outputs. We provide an online demo at https://fixhand.yiqun.io
</p>

### Title: Prompt Highlighter: Interactive Control for Multi-Modal LLMs. (arXiv:2312.04302v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04302](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04302)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/dvlab-research/prompt-highlighter](https://github.com/dvlab-research/prompt-highlighter)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04302] Prompt Highlighter: Interactive Control for Multi-Modal LLMs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04302) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>This study targets a critical aspect of multi-modal LLMs' (LLMs&amp;VLMs)
inference: explicit controllable text generation. Multi-modal LLMs empower
multi-modality understanding with the capability of semantic generation yet
bring less explainability and heavier reliance on prompt contents due to their
autoregressive generative nature. While manipulating prompt formats could
improve outputs, designing specific and precise prompts per task can be
challenging and ineffective. To tackle this issue, we introduce a novel
inference method, Prompt Highlighter, which enables users to highlight specific
prompt spans to interactively control the focus during generation. Motivated by
the classifier-free diffusion guidance, we form regular and unconditional
context pairs based on highlighted tokens, demonstrating that the
autoregressive generation in models can be guided in a classifier-free way.
Notably, we find that, during inference, guiding the models with highlighted
tokens through the attention weights leads to more desired outputs. Our
approach is compatible with current LLMs and VLMs, achieving impressive
customized generation results without training. Experiments confirm its
effectiveness in focusing on input contexts and generating reliable content.
Without tuning on LLaVA-v1.5, our method secured 69.5 in the MMBench test and
1552.5 in MME-perception. The code is available at:
https://github.com/dvlab-research/Prompt-Highlighter/
</p>

### Title: iDesigner: A High-Resolution and Complex-Prompt Following Text-to-Image Diffusion Model for Interior Design. (arXiv:2312.04326v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04326](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04326)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04326] iDesigner: A High-Resolution and Complex-Prompt Following Text-to-Image Diffusion Model for Interior Design](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04326) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>With the open-sourcing of text-to-image models (T2I) such as stable diffusion
(SD) and stable diffusion XL (SD-XL), there is an influx of models fine-tuned
in specific domains based on the open-source SD model, such as in anime,
character portraits, etc. However, there are few specialized models in certain
domains, such as interior design, which is attributed to the complex textual
descriptions and detailed visual elements inherent in design, alongside the
necessity for adaptable resolution. Therefore, text-to-image models for
interior design are required to have outstanding prompt-following capabilities,
as well as iterative collaboration with design professionals to achieve the
desired outcome. In this paper, we collect and optimize text-image data in the
design field and continue training in both English and Chinese on the basis of
the open-source CLIP model. We also proposed a fine-tuning strategy with
curriculum learning and reinforcement learning from CLIP feedback to enhance
the prompt-following capabilities of our approach so as to improve the quality
of image generation. The experimental results on the collected dataset
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, which achieves
impressive results and outperforms strong baselines.
</p>

### Title: Multi-View Unsupervised Image Generation with Cross Attention Guidance. (arXiv:2312.04337v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04337](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04337)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04337] Multi-View Unsupervised Image Generation with Cross Attention Guidance](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04337) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>The growing interest in novel view synthesis, driven by Neural Radiance Field
(NeRF) models, is hindered by scalability issues due to their reliance on
precisely annotated multi-view images. Recent models address this by
fine-tuning large text2image diffusion models on synthetic multi-view data.
Despite robust zero-shot generalization, they may need post-processing and can
face quality issues due to the synthetic-real domain gap. This paper introduces
a novel pipeline for unsupervised training of a pose-conditioned diffusion
model on single-category datasets. With the help of pretrained self-supervised
Vision Transformers (DINOv2), we identify object poses by clustering the
dataset through comparing visibility and locations of specific object parts.
The pose-conditioned diffusion model, trained on pose labels, and equipped with
cross-frame attention at inference time ensures cross-view consistency, that is
further aided by our novel hard-attention guidance. Our model, MIRAGE,
surpasses prior work in novel view synthesis on real images. Furthermore,
MIRAGE is robust to diverse textures and geometries, as demonstrated with our
experiments on synthetic images generated with pretrained Stable Diffusion.
</p>

### Title: Smooth Diffusion: Crafting Smooth Latent Spaces in Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2312.04410v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04410](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04410)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/shi-labs/smooth-diffusion](https://github.com/shi-labs/smooth-diffusion)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04410] Smooth Diffusion: Crafting Smooth Latent Spaces in Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04410) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recently, diffusion models have made remarkable progress in text-to-image
(T2I) generation, synthesizing images with high fidelity and diverse contents.
Despite this advancement, latent space smoothness within diffusion models
remains largely unexplored. Smooth latent spaces ensure that a perturbation on
an input latent corresponds to a steady change in the output image. This
property proves beneficial in downstream tasks, including image interpolation,
inversion, and editing. In this work, we expose the non-smoothness of diffusion
latent spaces by observing noticeable visual fluctuations resulting from minor
latent variations. To tackle this issue, we propose Smooth Diffusion, a new
category of diffusion models that can be simultaneously high-performing and
smooth. Specifically, we introduce Step-wise Variation Regularization to
enforce the proportion between the variations of an arbitrary input latent and
that of the output image is a constant at any diffusion training step. In
addition, we devise an interpolation standard deviation (ISTD) metric to
effectively assess the latent space smoothness of a diffusion model. Extensive
quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate that Smooth Diffusion
stands out as a more desirable solution not only in T2I generation but also
across various downstream tasks. Smooth Diffusion is implemented as a
plug-and-play Smooth-LoRA to work with various community models. Code is
available at https://github.com/SHI-Labs/Smooth-Diffusion.
</p>

### Title: Cascade-Zero123: One Image to Highly Consistent 3D with Self-Prompted Nearby Views. (arXiv:2312.04424v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04424](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04424)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04424] Cascade-Zero123: One Image to Highly Consistent 3D with Self-Prompted Nearby Views](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04424) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Synthesizing multi-view 3D from one single image is a significant and
challenging task. For this goal, Zero-1-to-3 methods aim to extend a 2D latent
diffusion model to the 3D scope. These approaches generate the target-view
image with a single-view source image and the camera pose as condition
information. However, the one-to-one manner adopted in Zero-1-to-3 incurs
challenges for building geometric and visual consistency across views,
especially for complex objects. We propose a cascade generation framework
constructed with two Zero-1-to-3 models, named Cascade-Zero123, to tackle this
issue, which progressively extracts 3D information from the source image.
Specifically, a self-prompting mechanism is designed to generate several nearby
views at first. These views are then fed into the second-stage model along with
the source image as generation conditions. With self-prompted multiple views as
the supplementary information, our Cascade-Zero123 generates more highly
consistent novel-view images than Zero-1-to-3. The promotion is significant for
various complex and challenging scenes, involving insects, humans, transparent
objects, and stacked multiple objects etc. The project page is at
https://cascadezero123.github.io/.
</p>

### Title: Approximate Caching for Efficiently Serving Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2312.04429v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04429](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04429)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04429] Approximate Caching for Efficiently Serving Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04429) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Text-to-image generation using diffusion models has seen explosive popularity
owing to their ability in producing high quality images adhering to text
prompts. However, production-grade diffusion model serving is a resource
intensive task that not only require high-end GPUs which are expensive but also
incurs considerable latency. In this paper, we introduce a technique called
approximate-caching that can reduce such iterative denoising steps for an image
generation based on a prompt by reusing intermediate noise states created
during a prior image generation for similar prompts. Based on this idea, we
present an end to end text-to-image system, Nirvana, that uses the
approximate-caching with a novel cache management-policy Least Computationally
Beneficial and Frequently Used (LCBFU) to provide % GPU compute savings, 19.8%
end-to-end latency reduction and 19% dollar savings, on average, on two real
production workloads. We further present an extensive characterization of real
production text-to-image prompts from the perspective of caching, popularity
and reuse of intermediate states in a large production environment.
</p>

### Title: DreamVideo: Composing Your Dream Videos with Customized Subject and Motion. (arXiv:2312.04433v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04433](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04433)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04433] DreamVideo: Composing Your Dream Videos with Customized Subject and Motion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04433) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Customized generation using diffusion models has made impressive progress in
image generation, but remains unsatisfactory in the challenging video
generation task, as it requires the controllability of both subjects and
motions. To that end, we present DreamVideo, a novel approach to generating
personalized videos from a few static images of the desired subject and a few
videos of target motion. DreamVideo decouples this task into two stages,
subject learning and motion learning, by leveraging a pre-trained video
diffusion model. The subject learning aims to accurately capture the fine
appearance of the subject from provided images, which is achieved by combining
textual inversion and fine-tuning of our carefully designed identity adapter.
In motion learning, we architect a motion adapter and fine-tune it on the given
videos to effectively model the target motion pattern. Combining these two
lightweight and efficient adapters allows for flexible customization of any
subject with any motion. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the
superior performance of our DreamVideo over the state-of-the-art methods for
customized video generation. Our project page is at
https://dreamvideo-t2v.github.io.
</p>

### Title: Improved Efficient Two-Stage Denoising Diffusion Power System Measurement Recovery Against False Data Injection Attacks and Data Losses. (arXiv:2312.04346v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04346](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04346)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04346] Improved Efficient Two-Stage Denoising Diffusion Power System Measurement Recovery Against False Data Injection Attacks and Data Losses](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04346) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Measurement uncertainties, represented by cyber-attacks and data losses,
seriously degrade the quality of power system measurements. Fortunately, the
powerful generation ability of the denoising diffusion models can enable more
precise measurement generation for power system data recovery. However, the
controllable data generation and efficient computing methods of denoising
diffusion models for deterministic trajectory still need further investigation.
To this end, this paper proposes an improved two-stage denoising diffusion
model (TSDM) to identify and reconstruct the measurements with various
measurement uncertainties. The first stage of the model comprises a
classifier-guided conditional anomaly detection component, while the second
stage involves diffusion-based measurement imputation component. Moreover, the
proposed TSDM adopts precise means and optimal variances to accelerate the
diffusion generation process with subsequence sampling. Extensive numerical
case studies demonstrate that the proposed TSDM can accurately recover power
system measurements despite strong randomness under renewable energy
integration and highly nonlinear dynamics under complex cyber-physical
contingencies. Additionally, the proposed TSDM has stronger robustness compared
to existing reconstruction networks and exhibits lower computational complexity
than general denoising diffusion models.
</p>

## self-supervised
### Title: Intelligent Anomaly Detection for Lane Rendering Using Transformer with Self-Supervised Pre-Training and Customized Fine-Tuning. (arXiv:2312.04398v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04398](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04398)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04398] Intelligent Anomaly Detection for Lane Rendering Using Transformer with Self-Supervised Pre-Training and Customized Fine-Tuning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04398) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>The burgeoning navigation services using digital maps provide great
convenience to drivers. Nevertheless, the presence of anomalies in lane
rendering map images occasionally introduces potential hazards, as such
anomalies can be misleading to human drivers and consequently contribute to
unsafe driving conditions. In response to this concern and to accurately and
effectively detect the anomalies, this paper transforms lane rendering image
anomaly detection into a classification problem and proposes a four-phase
pipeline consisting of data pre-processing, self-supervised pre-training with
the masked image modeling (MiM) method, customized fine-tuning using
cross-entropy based loss with label smoothing, and post-processing to tackle it
leveraging state-of-the-art deep learning techniques, especially those
involving Transformer models. Various experiments verify the effectiveness of
the proposed pipeline. Results indicate that the proposed pipeline exhibits
superior performance in lane rendering image anomaly detection, and notably,
the self-supervised pre-training with MiM can greatly enhance the detection
accuracy while significantly reducing the total training time. For instance,
employing the Swin Transformer with Uniform Masking as self-supervised
pretraining (Swin-Trans-UM) yielded a heightened accuracy at 94.77% and an
improved Area Under The Curve (AUC) score of 0.9743 compared with the pure Swin
Transformer without pre-training (Swin-Trans) with an accuracy of 94.01% and an
AUC of 0.9498. The fine-tuning epochs were dramatically reduced to 41 from the
original 280. In conclusion, the proposed pipeline, with its incorporation of
self-supervised pre-training using MiM and other advanced deep learning
techniques, emerges as a robust solution for enhancing the accuracy and
efficiency of lane rendering image anomaly detection in digital navigation
systems.
</p>

### Title: SCStory: Self-supervised and Continual Online Story Discovery. (arXiv:2312.03725v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03725](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03725)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03725] SCStory: Self-supervised and Continual Online Story Discovery](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03725) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>We present a framework SCStory for online story discovery, that helps people
digest rapidly published news article streams in real-time without human
annotations. To organize news article streams into stories, existing approaches
directly encode the articles and cluster them based on representation
similarity. However, these methods yield noisy and inaccurate story discovery
results because the generic article embeddings do not effectively reflect the
story-indicative semantics in an article and cannot adapt to the rapidly
evolving news article streams. SCStory employs self-supervised and continual
learning with a novel idea of story-indicative adaptive modeling of news
article streams. With a lightweight hierarchical embedding module that first
learns sentence representations and then article representations, SCStory
identifies story-relevant information of news articles and uses them to
discover stories. The embedding module is continuously updated to adapt to
evolving news streams with a contrastive learning objective, backed up by two
unique techniques, confidence-aware memory replay and prioritized-augmentation,
employed for label absence and data scarcity problems. Thorough experiments on
real and the latest news data sets demonstrate that SCStory outperforms
existing state-of-the-art algorithms for unsupervised online story discovery.
</p>

### Title: MultiGPrompt for Multi-Task Pre-Training and Prompting on Graphs. (arXiv:2312.03731v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03731](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03731)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03731] MultiGPrompt for Multi-Task Pre-Training and Prompting on Graphs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03731) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Graphs can inherently model interconnected objects on the Web, thereby
facilitating a series of Web applications, such as web analyzing and content
recommendation. Recently, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have emerged as a
mainstream technique for graph representation learning. However, their efficacy
within an end-to-end supervised framework is significantly tied to the
availabilityof task-specific labels. To mitigate labeling costs and enhance
robustness in few-shot settings, pre-training on self-supervised tasks has
emerged as a promising method, while prompting has been proposed to further
narrow the objective gap between pretext and downstream tasks. Although there
has been some initial exploration of prompt-based learning on graphs, they
primarily leverage a single pretext task, resulting in a limited subset of
general knowledge that could be learned from the pre-training data. Hence, in
this paper, we propose MultiGPrompt, a novel multi-task pre-training and
prompting framework to exploit multiple pretext tasks for more comprehensive
pre-trained knowledge. First, in pre-training, we design a set of pretext
tokens to synergize multiple pretext tasks. Second, we propose a dual-prompt
mechanism consisting of composed and open prompts to leverage task-specific and
global pre-training knowledge, to guide downstream tasks in few-shot settings.
Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on six public datasets to evaluate
and analyze MultiGPrompt.
</p>

### Title: Learning Genomic Sequence Representations using Graph Neural Networks over De Bruijn Graphs. (arXiv:2312.03865v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03865](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03865)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/ratschlab/genomic-gnn](https://github.com/ratschlab/genomic-gnn)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03865] Learning Genomic Sequence Representations using Graph Neural Networks over De Bruijn Graphs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03865) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>The rapid expansion of genomic sequence data calls for new methods to achieve
robust sequence representations. Existing techniques often neglect intricate
structural details, emphasizing mainly contextual information. To address this,
we developed k-mer embeddings that merge contextual and structural string
information by enhancing De Bruijn graphs with structural similarity
connections. Subsequently, we crafted a self-supervised method based on
Contrastive Learning that employs a heterogeneous Graph Convolutional Network
encoder and constructs positive pairs based on node similarities. Our
embeddings consistently outperform prior techniques for Edit Distance
Approximation and Closest String Retrieval tasks.
</p>

### Title: Rapid detection of rare events from in situ X-ray diffraction data using machine learning. (arXiv:2312.03989v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03989](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03989)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03989] Rapid detection of rare events from in situ X-ray diffraction data using machine learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03989) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>High-energy X-ray diffraction methods can non-destructively map the 3D
microstructure and associated attributes of metallic polycrystalline
engineering materials in their bulk form. These methods are often combined with
external stimuli such as thermo-mechanical loading to take snapshots over time
of the evolving microstructure and attributes. However, the extreme data
volumes and the high costs of traditional data acquisition and reduction
approaches pose a barrier to quickly extracting actionable insights and
improving the temporal resolution of these snapshots. Here we present a fully
automated technique capable of rapidly detecting the onset of plasticity in
high-energy X-ray microscopy data. Our technique is computationally faster by
at least 50 times than the traditional approaches and works for data sets that
are up to 9 times sparser than a full data set. This new technique leverages
self-supervised image representation learning and clustering to transform
massive data into compact, semantic-rich representations of visually salient
characteristics (e.g., peak shapes). These characteristics can be a rapid
indicator of anomalous events such as changes in diffraction peak shapes. We
anticipate that this technique will provide just-in-time actionable information
to drive smarter experiments that effectively deploy multi-modal X-ray
diffraction methods that span many decades of length scales.
</p>

### Title: Series2Vec: Similarity-based Self-supervised Representation Learning for Time Series Classification. (arXiv:2312.03998v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03998](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03998)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/navidfoumani/series2vec](https://github.com/navidfoumani/series2vec)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03998] Series2Vec: Similarity-based Self-supervised Representation Learning for Time Series Classification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03998) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>We argue that time series analysis is fundamentally different in nature to
either vision or natural language processing with respect to the forms of
meaningful self-supervised learning tasks that can be defined. Motivated by
this insight, we introduce a novel approach called \textit{Series2Vec} for
self-supervised representation learning. Unlike other self-supervised methods
in time series, which carry the risk of positive sample variants being less
similar to the anchor sample than series in the negative set, Series2Vec is
trained to predict the similarity between two series in both temporal and
spectral domains through a self-supervised task. Series2Vec relies primarily on
the consistency of the unsupervised similarity step, rather than the intrinsic
quality of the similarity measurement, without the need for hand-crafted data
augmentation. To further enforce the network to learn similar representations
for similar time series, we propose a novel approach that applies
order-invariant attention to each representation within the batch during
training. Our evaluation of Series2Vec on nine large real-world datasets, along
with the UCR/UEA archive, shows enhanced performance compared to current
state-of-the-art self-supervised techniques for time series. Additionally, our
extensive experiments show that Series2Vec performs comparably with fully
supervised training and offers high efficiency in datasets with limited-labeled
data. Finally, we show that the fusion of Series2Vec with other representation
learning models leads to enhanced performance for time series classification.
Code and models are open-source at
\url{https://github.com/Navidfoumani/Series2Vec.}
</p>

### Title: TimeDRL: Disentangled Representation Learning for Multivariate Time-Series. (arXiv:2312.04142v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04142](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04142)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04142] TimeDRL: Disentangled Representation Learning for Multivariate Time-Series](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04142) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Multivariate time-series data in numerous real-world applications (e.g.,
healthcare and industry) are informative but challenging due to the lack of
labels and high dimensionality. Recent studies in self-supervised learning have
shown their potential in learning rich representations without relying on
labels, yet they fall short in learning disentangled embeddings and addressing
issues of inductive bias (e.g., transformation-invariance). To tackle these
challenges, we propose TimeDRL, a generic multivariate time-series
representation learning framework with disentangled dual-level embeddings.
TimeDRL is characterized by three novel features: (i) disentangled derivation
of timestamp-level and instance-level embeddings from patched time-series data
using a [CLS] token strategy; (ii) utilization of timestamp-predictive and
instance-contrastive tasks for disentangled representation learning, with the
former optimizing timestamp-level embeddings with predictive loss, and the
latter optimizing instance-level embeddings with contrastive loss; and (iii)
avoidance of augmentation methods to eliminate inductive biases, such as
transformation-invariance from cropping and masking. Comprehensive experiments
on 6 time-series forecasting datasets and 5 time-series classification datasets
have shown that TimeDRL consistently surpasses existing representation learning
approaches, achieving an average improvement of forecasting by 57.98% in MSE
and classification by 1.25% in accuracy. Furthermore, extensive ablation
studies confirmed the relative contribution of each component in TimeDRL's
architecture, and semi-supervised learning evaluations demonstrated its
effectiveness in real-world scenarios, even with limited labeled data.
</p>

## foundation model
### Title: Novel class discovery meets foundation models for 3D semantic segmentation. (arXiv:2312.03782v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03782](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03782)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03782] Novel class discovery meets foundation models for 3D semantic segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03782) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>The task of Novel Class Discovery (NCD) in semantic segmentation entails
training a model able to accurately segment unlabelled (novel) classes, relying
on the available supervision from annotated (base) classes. Although
extensively investigated in 2D image data, the extension of the NCD task to the
domain of 3D point clouds represents a pioneering effort, characterized by
assumptions and challenges that are not present in the 2D case. This paper
represents an advancement in the analysis of point cloud data in four
directions. Firstly, it introduces the novel task of NCD for point cloud
semantic segmentation. Secondly, it demonstrates that directly transposing the
only existing NCD method for 2D image semantic segmentation to 3D data yields
suboptimal results. Thirdly, a new NCD approach based on online clustering,
uncertainty estimation, and semantic distillation is presented. Lastly, a novel
evaluation protocol is proposed to rigorously assess the performance of NCD in
point cloud semantic segmentation. Through comprehensive evaluations on the
SemanticKITTI, SemanticPOSS, and S3DIS datasets, the paper demonstrates
substantial superiority of the proposed method over the considered baselines.
</p>

### Title: Improving Medical Report Generation with Adapter Tuning and Knowledge Enhancement in Vision-Language Foundation Models. (arXiv:2312.03970v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03970](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03970)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03970] Improving Medical Report Generation with Adapter Tuning and Knowledge Enhancement in Vision-Language Foundation Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03970) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Medical report generation demands automatic creation of coherent and precise
descriptions for medical images. However, the scarcity of labelled medical
image-report pairs poses formidable challenges in developing large-scale neural
networks capable of harnessing the potential of artificial intelligence,
exemplified by large language models. This study builds upon the
state-of-the-art vision-language pre-training and fine-tuning approach, BLIP-2,
to customize general large-scale foundation models. Integrating adapter tuning
and a medical knowledge enhancement loss, our model significantly improves
accuracy and coherence. Validation on the dataset of ImageCLEFmedical 2023
demonstrates our model's prowess, achieving the best-averaged results against
several state-of-the-art methods. Significant improvements in ROUGE and CIDEr
underscore our method's efficacy, highlighting promising outcomes for the rapid
medical-domain adaptation of the vision-language foundation models in
addressing challenges posed by data scarcity.
</p>

### Title: An unsupervised approach towards promptable defect segmentation in laser-based additive manufacturing by Segment Anything. (arXiv:2312.04063v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04063](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04063)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04063] An unsupervised approach towards promptable defect segmentation in laser-based additive manufacturing by Segment Anything](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04063) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Foundation models are currently driving a paradigm shift in computer vision
tasks for various fields including biology, astronomy, and robotics among
others, leveraging user-generated prompts to enhance their performance. In the
manufacturing domain, accurate image-based defect segmentation is imperative to
ensure product quality and facilitate real-time process control. However, such
tasks are often characterized by multiple challenges including the absence of
labels and the requirement for low latency inference among others. To address
these issues, we construct a framework for image segmentation using a
state-of-the-art Vision Transformer (ViT) based Foundation model (Segment
Anything Model) with a novel multi-point prompt generation scheme using
unsupervised clustering. We apply our framework to perform real-time porosity
segmentation in a case study of laser base powder bed fusion (L-PBF) and obtain
high Dice Similarity Coefficients (DSC) without the necessity for any
supervised fine-tuning in the model. Using such lightweight foundation model
inference in conjunction with unsupervised prompt generation, we envision the
construction of a real-time anomaly detection pipeline that has the potential
to revolutionize the current laser-based additive manufacturing processes,
thereby facilitating the shift towards Industry 4.0 and promoting defect-free
production along with operational efficiency.
</p>

### Title: VRPTEST: Evaluating Visual Referring Prompting in Large Multimodal Models. (arXiv:2312.04087v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04087](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04087)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04087] VRPTEST: Evaluating Visual Referring Prompting in Large Multimodal Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04087) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>With recent advancements in Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) across various
domains, a novel prompting method called visual referring prompting has
emerged, showing significant potential in enhancing human-computer interaction
within multimodal systems. This method offers a more natural and flexible
approach to human interaction with these systems compared to traditional text
descriptions or coordinates. However, the categorization of visual referring
prompting remains undefined, and its impact on the performance of LMMs has yet
to be formally examined. In this study, we conduct the first comprehensive
analysis of LMMs using a variety of visual referring prompting strategies. We
introduce a benchmark dataset called VRPTEST, comprising 3 different visual
tasks and 2,275 images, spanning diverse combinations of prompt strategies.
Using VRPTEST, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of eight versions of
prominent open-source and proprietary foundation models, including two early
versions of GPT-4V. We develop an automated assessment framework based on
software metamorphic testing techniques to evaluate the accuracy of LMMs
without the need for human intervention or manual labeling. We find that the
current proprietary models generally outperform the open-source ones, showing
an average accuracy improvement of 22.70%; however, there is still potential
for improvement. Moreover, our quantitative analysis shows that the choice of
prompt strategy significantly affects the accuracy of LMMs, with variations
ranging from -17.5% to +7.3%. Further case studies indicate that an appropriate
visual referring prompting strategy can improve LMMs' understanding of context
and location information, while an unsuitable one might lead to answer
rejection. We also provide insights on minimizing the negative impact of visual
referring prompting on LMMs.
</p>

### Title: Fine-tune vision foundation model for crack segmentation in civil infrastructures. (arXiv:2312.04233v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04233](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04233)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04233] Fine-tune vision foundation model for crack segmentation in civil infrastructures](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04233) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Large-scale foundation models have become the mainstream method in the field
of deep learning, while in civil engineering, the scale of AI models is
strictly limited. In this work, vision foundation model is introduced for crack
segmentation. Two Parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods, adapter and low-rank
adaptation, are adopted to fine-tune the foundation model in the field of
semantic segmentation: Segment Anything Model (SAM). The fine-tuned model
CrackSAM is much larger than all the existing crack segmentation models, but
shows excellent performance. To test the zero-shot performance of the proposed
method, two unique datasets related to road and exterior wall cracks are
collected, annotated and open-sourced, in total 810 images. Comparative
experiments are conducted with twelve mature semantic segmentation models. On
datasets with artificial noise and previously unseen datasets, the performance
of CrackSAM far exceeds that of all state-of-the-art models. CrackSAM exhibits
remarkable superiority, particularly in challenging conditions such as dim
lighting, shadows, road markings, construction joints, and other interference
factors. Such cross-scenario results demonstrate the outstanding zero-shot
capability of foundation models, and provide new ideas for the development of
vision models in civil engineering.
</p>

### Title: Stronger, Fewer, & Superior: Harnessing Vision Foundation Models for Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation. (arXiv:2312.04265v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04265](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04265)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04265] Stronger, Fewer, & Superior: Harnessing Vision Foundation Models for Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04265) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>In this paper, we first assess and harness various Vision Foundation Models
(VFMs) in the context of Domain Generalized Semantic Segmentation (DGSS).
Driven by the motivation that Leveraging Stronger pre-trained models and Fewer
trainable parameters for Superior generalizability, we introduce a robust
fine-tuning approach, namely Rein, to parameter-efficiently harness VFMs for
DGSS. Built upon a set of trainable tokens, each linked to distinct instances,
Rein precisely refines and forwards the feature maps from each layer to the
next layer within the backbone. This process produces diverse refinements for
different categories within a single image. With fewer trainable parameters,
Rein efficiently fine-tunes VFMs for DGSS tasks, surprisingly surpassing full
parameter fine-tuning. Extensive experiments across various settings
demonstrate that Rein significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
Remarkably, with just an extra 1% of trainable parameters within the frozen
backbone, Rein achieves a mIoU of 68.1% on the Cityscapes, without accessing
any real urban-scene datasets.
</p>

### Title: FoMo Rewards: Can we cast foundation models as reward functions?. (arXiv:2312.03881v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03881](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03881)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03881] FoMo Rewards: Can we cast foundation models as reward functions?](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03881) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>We explore the viability of casting foundation models as generic reward
functions for reinforcement learning. To this end, we propose a simple pipeline
that interfaces an off-the-shelf vision model with a large language model.
Specifically, given a trajectory of observations, we infer the likelihood of an
instruction describing the task that the user wants an agent to perform. We
show that this generic likelihood function exhibits the characteristics ideally
expected from a reward function: it associates high values with the desired
behaviour and lower values for several similar, but incorrect policies.
Overall, our work opens the possibility of designing open-ended agents for
interactive tasks via foundation models.
</p>

### Title: Jointly spatial-temporal representation learning for individual trajectories. (arXiv:2312.04055v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04055](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04055)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04055] Jointly spatial-temporal representation learning for individual trajectories](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04055) #foundation model`
* Summary: <p>Individual trajectories, containing substantial information on
human-environment interactions across space and time, is a crucial input for
geospatial foundation models (GeoFMs). However, existing attempts, leveraging
trajectory data for various applications have overlooked the implicit
spatial-temporal dependency within trajectories and failed to encode and
represent it in a format friendly to deep learning, posing a challenge in
obtaining general-purpose trajectory representations. Therefore, this paper
proposes a spatial-temporal joint representation learning method (ST-GraphRL)
to formalize learnable spatial-temporal dependencies into trajectory
representations. The proposed ST-GraphRL consists of three compositions: (i) a
weighted directed spatial-temporal graph to explicitly construct mobility
interactions over both space and time dimensions; (ii) a two-stage jointly
encoder (i.e., decoupling and fusion) to learn entangled spatial-temporal
dependencies by independently decomposing and jointly aggregating space and
time information; (iii) a decoder guides ST-GraphRL to learn explicit mobility
regularities by simulating the spatial-temporal distributions of trajectories.
Tested on three real-world human mobility datasets, the proposed ST-GraphRL
outperformed all the baseline models in predicting movement spatial-temporal
distributions and preserving trajectory similarity with high spatial-temporal
correlations. We also explore how spatial-temporal features presented in latent
space, validating that ST-GraphRL understands spatial-temporal patterns. This
method is also transferable for general-purpose geospatial data representations
for broad downstream tasks, as well advancing GeoFMs developing.
</p>

## generative
### Title: XCube ($\mathcal{X}^3$): Large-Scale 3D Generative Modeling using Sparse Voxel Hierarchies. (arXiv:2312.03806v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03806](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03806)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03806] XCube ($\mathcal{X}^3$): Large-Scale 3D Generative Modeling using Sparse Voxel Hierarchies](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03806) #generative`
* Summary: <p>We present $\mathcal{X}^3$ (pronounced XCube), a novel generative model for
high-resolution sparse 3D voxel grids with arbitrary attributes. Our model can
generate millions of voxels with a finest effective resolution of up to
$1024^3$ in a feed-forward fashion without time-consuming test-time
optimization. To achieve this, we employ a hierarchical voxel latent diffusion
model which generates progressively higher resolution grids in a coarse-to-fine
manner using a custom framework built on the highly efficient VDB data
structure. Apart from generating high-resolution objects, we demonstrate the
effectiveness of XCube on large outdoor scenes at scales of 100m$\times$100m
with a voxel size as small as 10cm. We observe clear qualitative and
quantitative improvements over past approaches. In addition to unconditional
generation, we show that our model can be used to solve a variety of tasks such
as user-guided editing, scene completion from a single scan, and text-to-3D.
More results and details can be found at
https://research.nvidia.com/labs/toronto-ai/xcube/.
</p>

### Title: PartDistill: 3D Shape Part Segmentation by Vision-Language Model Distillation. (arXiv:2312.04016v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04016](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04016)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04016] PartDistill: 3D Shape Part Segmentation by Vision-Language Model Distillation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04016) #generative`
* Summary: <p>This paper proposes a cross-modal distillation framework, PartDistill, which
transfers 2D knowledge from vision-language models (VLMs) to facilitate 3D
shape part segmentation. PartDistill addresses three major challenges in this
task: the lack of 3D segmentation in invisible or undetected regions in the 2D
projections, inaccurate and inconsistent 2D predictions by VLMs, and the lack
of knowledge accumulation across different 3D shapes. PartDistill consists of a
teacher network that uses a VLM to make 2D predictions and a student network
that learns from the 2D predictions while extracting geometrical features from
multiple 3D shapes to carry out 3D part segmentation. A bi-directional
distillation, including forward and backward distillations, is carried out
within the framework, where the former forward distills the 2D predictions to
the student network, and the latter improves the quality of the 2D predictions,
which subsequently enhances the final 3D part segmentation. Moreover,
PartDistill can exploit generative models that facilitate effortless 3D shape
creation for generating knowledge sources to be distilled. Through extensive
experiments, PartDistill boosts the existing methods with substantial margins
on widely used ShapeNetPart and PartE datasets, by more than 15% and 12% higher
mIoU scores, respectively.
</p>

### Title: Comparing Generative Chatbots Based on Process Requirements. (arXiv:2312.03741v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03741](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03741)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03741] Comparing Generative Chatbots Based on Process Requirements](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03741) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Business processes are commonly represented by modelling languages, such as
Event-driven Process Chain (EPC), Yet Another Workflow Language (YAWL), and the
most popular standard notation for modelling business processes, the Business
Process Model and Notation (BPMN). Most recently, chatbots, programs that allow
users to interact with a machine using natural language, have been increasingly
used for business process execution support. A recent category of chatbots
worth mentioning is generative-based chatbots, powered by Large Language Models
(LLMs) such as OpenAI's Generative Pre-Trained Transformer (GPT) model and
Google's Pathways Language Model (PaLM), which are trained on billions of
parameters and support conversational intelligence. However, it is not clear
whether generative-based chatbots are able to understand and meet the
requirements of constructs such as those provided by BPMN for process execution
support. This paper presents a case study to compare the performance of
prominent generative models, GPT and PaLM, in the context of process execution
support. The research sheds light into the challenging problem of using
conversational approaches supported by generative chatbots as a means to
understand process-aware modelling notations and support users to execute their
tasks.
</p>

### Title: Beyond Surface: Probing LLaMA Across Scales and Layers. (arXiv:2312.04333v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04333](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04333)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/nuochenpku/llama_analysis](https://github.com/nuochenpku/llama_analysis)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04333] Beyond Surface: Probing LLaMA Across Scales and Layers](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04333) #generative`
* Summary: <p>This paper presents an in-depth analysis of Large Language Models (LLMs),
focusing on LLaMA, a prominent open-source foundational model in natural
language processing. Instead of assessing LLaMA through its generative output,
we design multiple-choice tasks to probe its intrinsic understanding in
high-order tasks such as reasoning and computation. We examine the model
horizontally, comparing different sizes, and vertically, assessing different
layers. We unveil several key and uncommon findings based on the designed
probing tasks: (1) Horizontally, enlarging model sizes almost could not
automatically impart additional knowledge or computational prowess. Instead, it
can enhance reasoning abilities, especially in math problem solving, and helps
reduce hallucinations, but only beyond certain size thresholds; (2) In vertical
analysis, the lower layers of LLaMA lack substantial arithmetic and factual
knowledge, showcasing logical thinking, multilingual and recognitive abilities,
with top layers housing most computational power and real-world knowledge.
</p>

### Title: Improving Gradient-guided Nested Sampling for Posterior Inference. (arXiv:2312.03911v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03911](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03911)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/pablo-lemos/ggns](https://github.com/pablo-lemos/ggns)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03911] Improving Gradient-guided Nested Sampling for Posterior Inference](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03911) #generative`
* Summary: <p>We present a performant, general-purpose gradient-guided nested sampling
algorithm, ${\tt GGNS}$, combining the state of the art in differentiable
programming, Hamiltonian slice sampling, clustering, mode separation, dynamic
nested sampling, and parallelization. This unique combination allows ${\tt
GGNS}$ to scale well with dimensionality and perform competitively on a variety
of synthetic and real-world problems. We also show the potential of combining
nested sampling with generative flow networks to obtain large amounts of
high-quality samples from the posterior distribution. This combination leads to
faster mode discovery and more accurate estimates of the partition function.
</p>

### Title: Mixture of Dynamical Variational Autoencoders for Multi-Source Trajectory Modeling and Separation. (arXiv:2312.04167v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04167](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04167)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04167] Mixture of Dynamical Variational Autoencoders for Multi-Source Trajectory Modeling and Separation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04167) #generative`
* Summary: <p>In this paper, we propose a latent-variable generative model called mixture
of dynamical variational autoencoders (MixDVAE) to model the dynamics of a
system composed of multiple moving sources. A DVAE model is pre-trained on a
single-source dataset to capture the source dynamics. Then, multiple instances
of the pre-trained DVAE model are integrated into a multi-source mixture model
with a discrete observation-to-source assignment latent variable. The posterior
distributions of both the discrete observation-to-source assignment variable
and the continuous DVAE variables representing the sources content/position are
estimated using a variational expectation-maximization algorithm, leading to
multi-source trajectories estimation. We illustrate the versatility of the
proposed MixDVAE model on two tasks: a computer vision task, namely
multi-object tracking, and an audio processing task, namely single-channel
audio source separation. Experimental results show that the proposed method
works well on these two tasks, and outperforms several baseline methods.
</p>

### Title: Learning to sample in Cartesian MRI. (arXiv:2312.04327v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04327](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04327)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04327] Learning to sample in Cartesian MRI](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04327) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Despite its exceptional soft tissue contrast, Magnetic Resonance Imaging
(MRI) faces the challenge of long scanning times compared to other modalities
like X-ray radiography. Shortening scanning times is crucial in clinical
settings, as it increases patient comfort, decreases examination costs and
improves throughput. Recent advances in compressed sensing (CS) and deep
learning allow accelerated MRI acquisition by reconstructing high-quality
images from undersampled data. While reconstruction algorithms have received
most of the focus, designing acquisition trajectories to optimize
reconstruction quality remains an open question. This thesis explores two
approaches to address this gap in the context of Cartesian MRI. First, we
propose two algorithms, lazy LBCS and stochastic LBCS, that significantly
improve upon G\"ozc\"u et al.'s greedy learning-based CS (LBCS) approach. These
algorithms scale to large, clinically relevant scenarios like multi-coil 3D MR
and dynamic MRI, previously inaccessible to LBCS. Additionally, we demonstrate
that generative adversarial networks (GANs) can serve as a natural criterion
for adaptive sampling by leveraging variance in the measurement domain to guide
acquisition. Second, we delve into the underlying structures or assumptions
that enable mask design algorithms to perform well in practice. Our experiments
reveal that state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning (RL) approaches, while
capable of adaptation and long-horizon planning, offer only marginal
improvements over stochastic LBCS, which is neither adaptive nor does long-term
planning. Altogether, our findings suggest that stochastic LBCS and similar
methods represent promising alternatives to deep RL. They shine in particular
by their scalability and computational efficiency and could be key in the
deployment of optimized acquisition trajectories in Cartesian MRI.
</p>

## anomaly
### Title: How Low Can You Go? Surfacing Prototypical In-Distribution Samples for Unsupervised Anomaly Detection. (arXiv:2312.03804v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03804](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03804)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03804] How Low Can You Go? Surfacing Prototypical In-Distribution Samples for Unsupervised Anomaly Detection](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03804) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Unsupervised anomaly detection (UAD) alleviates large labeling efforts by
training exclusively on unlabeled in-distribution data and detecting outliers
as anomalies. Generally, the assumption prevails that large training datasets
allow the training of higher-performing UAD models. However, in this work, we
show that using only very few training samples can already match - and in some
cases even improve - anomaly detection compared to training with the whole
training dataset. We propose three methods to identify prototypical samples
from a large dataset of in-distribution samples. We demonstrate that by
training with a subset of just ten such samples, we achieve an area under the
receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROC) of $96.37 \%$ on CIFAR10,
$92.59 \%$ on CIFAR100, $95.37 \%$ on MNIST, $95.38 \%$ on Fashion-MNIST,
$96.37 \%$ on MVTec-AD, $98.81 \%$ on BraTS, and $81.95 \%$ on RSNA pneumonia
detection, even exceeding the performance of full training in $25/67$ classes
we tested. Additionally, we show that the prototypical in-distribution samples
identified by our proposed methods translate well to different models and other
datasets and that using their characteristics as guidance allows for successful
manual selection of small subsets of high-performing samples. Our code is
available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/uad_prototypical_samples/
</p>

### Title: A Multilevel Guidance-Exploration Network and Behavior-Scene Matching Method for Human Behavior Anomaly Detection. (arXiv:2312.04119v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04119](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04119)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04119] A Multilevel Guidance-Exploration Network and Behavior-Scene Matching Method for Human Behavior Anomaly Detection](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04119) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Human behavior anomaly detection aims to identify unusual human actions,
playing a crucial role in intelligent surveillance and other areas. The current
mainstream methods still adopt reconstruction or future frame prediction
techniques. However, reconstructing or predicting low-level pixel features
easily enables the network to achieve overly strong generalization ability,
allowing anomalies to be reconstructed or predicted as effectively as normal
data. Different from their methods, inspired by the Student-Teacher Network, we
propose a novel framework called the Multilevel Guidance-Exploration
Network(MGENet), which detects anomalies through the difference in high-level
representation between the Guidance and Exploration network. Specifically, we
first utilize the pre-trained Normalizing Flow that takes skeletal keypoints as
input to guide an RGB encoder, which takes unmasked RGB frames as input, to
explore motion latent features. Then, the RGB encoder guides the mask encoder,
which takes masked RGB frames as input, to explore the latent appearance
feature. Additionally, we design a Behavior-Scene Matching Module(BSMM) to
detect scene-related behavioral anomalies. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance on ShanghaiTech
and UBnormal datasets, with AUC of 86.9 % and 73.5 %, respectively. The code
will be available on https://github.com/molu-ggg/GENet.
</p>

## in-context
### Title: DP-OPT: Make Large Language Model Your Privacy-Preserving Prompt Engineer. (arXiv:2312.03724v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03724](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03724)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03724] DP-OPT: Make Large Language Model Your Privacy-Preserving Prompt Engineer](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03724) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as dominant tools for various
tasks, particularly when tailored for a specific target by prompt tuning.
Nevertheless, concerns surrounding data privacy present obstacles due to the
tuned prompts' dependency on sensitive private information. A practical
solution is to host a local LLM and optimize a soft prompt privately using
data. Yet, hosting a local model becomes problematic when model ownership is
protected. Alternative methods, like sending data to the model's provider for
training, intensify these privacy issues facing an untrusted provider. In this
paper, we present a novel solution called Differentially-Private Offsite Prompt
Tuning (DP-OPT) to address this challenge. Our approach involves tuning a
discrete prompt on the client side and then applying it to the desired cloud
models. We demonstrate that prompts suggested by LLMs themselves can be
transferred without compromising performance significantly. To ensure that the
prompts do not leak private information, we introduce the first private prompt
generation mechanism, by a differentially-private (DP) ensemble of in-context
learning with private demonstrations. With DP-OPT, generating
privacy-preserving prompts by Vicuna-7b can yield competitive performance
compared to non-private in-context learning on GPT3.5 or local private prompt
tuning. Codes are available at https://github.com/VITA-Group/DP-OPT .
</p>

### Title: Cost-Effective In-Context Learning for Entity Resolution: A Design Space Exploration. (arXiv:2312.03987v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03987](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03987)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/fmh1art/batcher](https://github.com/fmh1art/batcher)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03987] Cost-Effective In-Context Learning for Entity Resolution: A Design Space Exploration](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03987) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Entity resolution (ER) is an important data integration task with a wide
spectrum of applications. The state-of-the-art solutions on ER rely on
pre-trained language models (PLMs), which require fine-tuning on a lot of
labeled matching/non-matching entity pairs. Recently, large languages models
(LLMs), such as GPT-4, have shown the ability to perform many tasks without
tuning model parameters, which is known as in-context learning (ICL) that
facilitates effective learning from a few labeled input context demonstrations.
However, existing ICL approaches to ER typically necessitate providing a task
description and a set of demonstrations for each entity pair and thus have
limitations on the monetary cost of interfacing LLMs. To address the problem,
in this paper, we provide a comprehensive study to investigate how to develop a
cost-effective batch prompting approach to ER. We introduce a framework BATCHER
consisting of demonstration selection and question batching and explore
different design choices that support batch prompting for ER. We also devise a
covering-based demonstration selection strategy that achieves an effective
balance between matching accuracy and monetary cost. We conduct a thorough
evaluation to explore the design space and evaluate our proposed strategies.
Through extensive experiments, we find that batch prompting is very
cost-effective for ER, compared with not only PLM-based methods fine-tuned with
extensive labeled data but also LLM-based methods with manually designed
prompting. We also provide guidance for selecting appropriate design choices
for batch prompting.
</p>

### Title: A Study on the Calibration of In-context Learning. (arXiv:2312.04021v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04021](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04021)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04021] A Study on the Calibration of In-context Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04021) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Modern auto-regressive language models are trained to minimize log loss on
broad data by predicting the next token so they are expected to get calibrated
answers when framing a problem as a next-token prediction task. We study this
for in-context learning (ICL), a widely used way to adapt frozen large language
models (LLMs) via crafting prompts, and investigate the trade-offs between
performance and calibration on a wide range of natural language understanding
and reasoning tasks. We conduct extensive experiments to show that such
trade-offs may get worse as we increase model size, incorporate more ICL
examples, and fine-tune models using instruction, dialog, or reinforcement
learning from human feedback (RLHF) on carefully curated datasets. Furthermore,
we find that common recalibration techniques that are widely effective such as
temperature scaling provide limited gains in calibration errors, suggesting
that new methods may be required for settings where models are expected to be
reliable.
</p>

### Title: Generalization to New Sequential Decision Making Tasks with In-Context Learning. (arXiv:2312.03801v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03801](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03801)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03801] Generalization to New Sequential Decision Making Tasks with In-Context Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03801) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Training autonomous agents that can learn new tasks from only a handful of
demonstrations is a long-standing problem in machine learning. Recently,
transformers have been shown to learn new language or vision tasks without any
weight updates from only a few examples, also referred to as in-context
learning. However, the sequential decision making setting poses additional
challenges having a lower tolerance for errors since the environment's
stochasticity or the agent's actions can lead to unseen, and sometimes
unrecoverable, states. In this paper, we use an illustrative example to show
that naively applying transformers to sequential decision making problems does
not enable in-context learning of new tasks. We then demonstrate how training
on sequences of trajectories with certain distributional properties leads to
in-context learning of new sequential decision making tasks. We investigate
different design choices and find that larger model and dataset sizes, as well
as more task diversity, environment stochasticity, and trajectory burstiness,
all result in better in-context learning of new out-of-distribution tasks. By
training on large diverse offline datasets, our model is able to learn new
MiniHack and Procgen tasks without any weight updates from just a handful of
demonstrations.
</p>

### Title: On the adaptation of in-context learners for system identification. (arXiv:2312.04083v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04083](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04083)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04083] On the adaptation of in-context learners for system identification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04083) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>In-context system identification aims at constructing meta-models to describe
classes of systems, differently from traditional approaches that model single
systems. This paradigm facilitates the leveraging of knowledge acquired from
observing the behaviour of different, yet related dynamics. This paper
discusses the role of meta-model adaptation. Through numerical examples, we
demonstrate how meta-model adaptation can enhance predictive performance in
three realistic scenarios: tailoring the meta-model to describe a specific
system rather than a class; extending the meta-model to capture the behaviour
of systems beyond the initial training class; and recalibrating the model for
new prediction tasks. Results highlight the effectiveness of meta-model
adaptation to achieve a more robust and versatile meta-learning framework for
system identification.
</p>

## memory
### Title: Memory-Efficient Optical Flow via Radius-Distribution Orthogonal Cost Volume. (arXiv:2312.03790v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03790](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03790)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03790] Memory-Efficient Optical Flow via Radius-Distribution Orthogonal Cost Volume](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03790) #memory`
* Summary: <p>The full 4D cost volume in Recurrent All-Pairs Field Transforms (RAFT) or
global matching by Transformer achieves impressive performance for optical flow
estimation. However, their memory consumption increases quadratically with
input resolution, rendering them impractical for high-resolution images. In
this paper, we present MeFlow, a novel memory-efficient method for
high-resolution optical flow estimation. The key of MeFlow is a recurrent local
orthogonal cost volume representation, which decomposes the 2D search space
dynamically into two 1D orthogonal spaces, enabling our method to scale
effectively to very high-resolution inputs. To preserve essential information
in the orthogonal space, we utilize self attention to propagate feature
information from the 2D space to the orthogonal space. We further propose a
radius-distribution multi-scale lookup strategy to model the correspondences of
large displacements at a negligible cost. We verify the efficiency and
effectiveness of our method on the challenging Sintel and KITTI benchmarks, and
real-world 4K ($2160\!\times\!3840$) images. Our method achieves competitive
performance on both Sintel and KITTI benchmarks, while maintaining the highest
memory efficiency on high-resolution inputs.
</p>

### Title: Instance Tracking in 3D Scenes from Egocentric Videos. (arXiv:2312.04117v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04117](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04117)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04117] Instance Tracking in 3D Scenes from Egocentric Videos](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04117) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Egocentric sensors such as AR/VR devices capture human-object interactions
and offer the potential to provide task-assistance by recalling 3D locations of
objects of interest in the surrounding environment. This capability requires
instance tracking in real-world 3D scenes from egocentric videos (IT3DEgo). We
explore this problem by first introducing a new benchmark dataset, consisting
of RGB and depth videos, per-frame camera pose, and instance-level annotations
in both 2D camera and 3D world coordinates. We present an evaluation protocol
which evaluates tracking performance in 3D coordinates with two settings for
enrolling instances to track: (1) single-view online enrollment where an
instance is specified on-the-fly based on the human wearer's interactions. and
(2) multi-view pre-enrollment where images of an instance to be tracked are
stored in memory ahead of time. To address IT3DEgo, we first re-purpose methods
from relevant areas, e.g., single object tracking (SOT) -- running SOT methods
to track instances in 2D frames and lifting them to 3D using camera pose and
depth. We also present a simple method that leverages pretrained segmentation
and detection models to generate proposals from RGB frames and match proposals
with enrolled instance images. Perhaps surprisingly, our extensive experiments
show that our method (with no finetuning) significantly outperforms SOT-based
approaches. We conclude by arguing that the problem of egocentric instance
tracking is made easier by leveraging camera pose and using a 3D allocentric
(world) coordinate representation.
</p>

### Title: Augmentation-Free Dense Contrastive Knowledge Distillation for Efficient Semantic Segmentation. (arXiv:2312.04168v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04168](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04168)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/osvai/af-dcd](https://github.com/osvai/af-dcd)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04168] Augmentation-Free Dense Contrastive Knowledge Distillation for Efficient Semantic Segmentation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04168) #memory`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, knowledge distillation methods based on contrastive learning
have achieved promising results on image classification and object detection
tasks. However, in this line of research, we note that less attention is paid
to semantic segmentation. Existing methods heavily rely on data augmentation
and memory buffer, which entail high computational resource demands when
applying them to handle semantic segmentation that requires to preserve
high-resolution feature maps for making dense pixel-wise predictions. In order
to address this problem, we present Augmentation-free Dense Contrastive
Knowledge Distillation (Af-DCD), a new contrastive distillation learning
paradigm to train compact and accurate deep neural networks for semantic
segmentation applications. Af-DCD leverages a masked feature mimicking
strategy, and formulates a novel contrastive learning loss via taking advantage
of tactful feature partitions across both channel and spatial dimensions,
allowing to effectively transfer dense and structured local knowledge learnt by
the teacher model to a target student model while maintaining training
efficiency. Extensive experiments on five mainstream benchmarks with various
teacher-student network pairs demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
For instance, the DeepLabV3-Res18|DeepLabV3-MBV2 model trained by Af-DCD
reaches 77.03%|76.38% mIOU on Cityscapes dataset when choosing DeepLabV3-Res101
as the teacher, setting new performance records. Besides that, Af-DCD achieves
an absolute mIOU improvement of 3.26%|3.04%|2.75%|2.30%|1.42% compared with
individually trained counterpart on Cityscapes|Pascal
VOC|Camvid|ADE20K|COCO-Stuff-164K. Code is available at
https://github.com/OSVAI/Af-DCD
</p>

### Title: An Evaluation of State-of-the-Art Large Language Models for Sarcasm Detection. (arXiv:2312.03706v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03706](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03706)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03706] An Evaluation of State-of-the-Art Large Language Models for Sarcasm Detection](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03706) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Sarcasm, as defined by Merriam-Webster, is the use of words by someone who
means the opposite of what he is trying to say. In the field of sentimental
analysis of Natural Language Processing, the ability to correctly identify
sarcasm is necessary for understanding people's true opinions. Because the use
of sarcasm is often context-based, previous research has used language
representation models, such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Long Short-Term
Memory (LSTM), to identify sarcasm with contextual-based information. Recent
innovations in NLP have provided more possibilities for detecting sarcasm. In
BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language
Understanding, Jacob Devlin et al. (2018) introduced a new language
representation model and demonstrated higher precision in interpreting
contextualized language. As proposed by Hazarika et al. (2018), CASCADE is a
context-driven model that produces good results for detecting sarcasm. This
study analyzes a Reddit corpus using these two state-of-the-art models and
evaluates their performance against baseline models to find the ideal approach
to sarcasm detection.
</p>

### Title: A Rank Stabilization Scaling Factor for Fine-Tuning with LoRA. (arXiv:2312.03732v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03732](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03732)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03732] A Rank Stabilization Scaling Factor for Fine-Tuning with LoRA](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03732) #memory`
* Summary: <p>As large language models (LLMs) have become increasingly compute and memory
intensive, parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods are now a common
strategy to fine-tune LLMs. A popular PEFT method is Low-Rank Adapters (LoRA),
which adds trainable low-rank "adapters" to selected layers. Each adapter
consists of a low-rank matrix product, multiplicatively scaled by a
rank-dependent factor. This scaling factor, which divides adapters by a factor
of the rank, results in slowed learning and stunted performance for LoRA with
higher-rank adapters. Consequently, the use of LoRA in practice has generally
been limited to very low ranks. In this work, we study the impact of the
scaling factor on the learning process and prove that LoRA adapters should be
divided by a factor of the square root of the rank. Modifying LoRA with the
appropriate scaling factor, which we call the rank-stabilized LoRA (rsLoRA)
method, easily provides for a fine-tuning compute/performance trade-off, where
larger ranks can be used to trade off increased computational resources during
training for better fine-tuning performance, with no change in inference
computing cost.
</p>

### Title: SmoothQuant+: Accurate and Efficient 4-bit Post-Training WeightQuantization for LLM. (arXiv:2312.03788v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03788](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03788)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03788] SmoothQuant+: Accurate and Efficient 4-bit Post-Training WeightQuantization for LLM](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03788) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in various
tasks. However their huge model size and the consequent demand for
computational and memory resources also pose challenges to model deployment.
Currently, 4-bit post-training quantization (PTQ) has achieved some success in
LLMs, reducing the memory footprint by approximately 75% compared to FP16
models, albeit with some accuracy loss. In this paper, we propose SmoothQuant+,
an accurate and efficient 4-bit weight-only PTQ that requires no additional
training, which enables lossless in accuracy for LLMs for the first time. Based
on the fact that the loss of weight quantization is amplified by the activation
outliers, SmoothQuant+ smoothes the activation outliers by channel before
quantization, while adjusting the corresponding weights for mathematical
equivalence, and then performs group-wise 4-bit weight quantization for linear
layers. We have integrated SmoothQuant+ into the vLLM framework, an advanced
high-throughput inference engine specially developed for LLMs, and equipped it
with an efficient W4A16 CUDA kernels, so that vLLM can seamlessly support
SmoothQuant+ 4-bit weight quantization. Our results show that, with
SmoothQuant+, the Code Llama-34B model can be quantized and deployed on a A100
40GB GPU, achieving lossless accuracy and a throughput increase of 1.9 to 4.0
times compared to the FP16 model deployed on two A100 40GB GPUs. Moreover, the
latency per token is only 68% of the FP16 model deployed on two A100 40GB GPUs.
This is the state-of-the-art 4-bit weight quantization for LLMs as we know.
</p>

### Title: MediHunt: A Network Forensics Framework for Medical IoT Devices. (arXiv:2312.04096v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04096](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04096)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04096] MediHunt: A Network Forensics Framework for Medical IoT Devices](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04096) #memory`
* Summary: <p>The Medical Internet of Things (MIoT) has enabled small, ubiquitous medical
devices to communicate with each other to facilitate interconnected healthcare
delivery. These devices interact using communication protocols like MQTT,
Bluetooth, and Wi-Fi. However, as MIoT devices proliferate, these networked
devices are vulnerable to cyber-attacks. This paper focuses on the
vulnerabilities present in the Message Queuing Telemetry and Transport (MQTT)
protocol. The MQTT protocol is prone to cyber-attacks that can harm the
system's functionality. The memory-constrained MIoT devices enforce a
limitation on storing all data logs that are required for comprehensive network
forensics. This paper solves the data log availability challenge by detecting
the attack in real-time and storing the corresponding logs for further analysis
with the proposed network forensics framework: MediHunt. Machine learning (ML)
techniques are the most real safeguard against cyber-attacks. However, these
models require a specific dataset that covers diverse attacks on the MQTT-based
IoT system for training. The currently available datasets do not encompass a
variety of applications and TCP layer attacks. To address this issue, we
leveraged the usage of a flow-based dataset containing flow data for TCP/IP
layer and application layer attacks. Six different ML models are trained with
the generated dataset to evaluate the effectiveness of the MediHunt framework
in detecting real-time attacks. F1 scores and detection accuracy exceeded 0.99
for the proposed MediHunt framework with our custom dataset.
</p>

### Title: Predicting the Transportation Activities of Construction Waste Hauling Trucks: An Input-Output Hidden Markov Approach. (arXiv:2312.03780v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03780](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03780)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03780] Predicting the Transportation Activities of Construction Waste Hauling Trucks: An Input-Output Hidden Markov Approach](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03780) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Construction waste hauling trucks (CWHTs), as one of the most commonly seen
heavy-duty vehicles in major cities around the globe, are usually subject to a
series of regulations and spatial-temporal access restrictions because they not
only produce significant NOx and PM emissions but also causes on-road fugitive
dust. The timely and accurate prediction of CWHTs' destinations and dwell times
play a key role in effective environmental management. To address this
challenge, we propose a prediction method based on an interpretable
activity-based model, input-output hidden Markov model (IOHMM), and validate it
on 300 CWHTs in Chengdu, China. Contextual factors are considered in the model
to improve its prediction power. Results show that the IOHMM outperforms
several baseline models, including Markov chains, linear regression, and long
short-term memory. Factors influencing the predictability of CWHTs'
transportation activities are also explored using linear regression models.
Results suggest the proposed model holds promise in assisting authorities by
predicting the upcoming transportation activities of CWHTs and administering
intervention in a timely and effective manner.
</p>

### Title: A Masked Pruning Approach for Dimensionality Reduction in Communication-Efficient Federated Learning Systems. (arXiv:2312.03889v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03889](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03889)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03889] A Masked Pruning Approach for Dimensionality Reduction in Communication-Efficient Federated Learning Systems](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03889) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Federated Learning (FL) represents a growing machine learning (ML) paradigm
designed for training models across numerous nodes that retain local datasets,
all without directly exchanging the underlying private data with the parameter
server (PS). Its increasing popularity is attributed to notable advantages in
terms of training deep neural network (DNN) models under privacy aspects and
efficient utilization of communication resources. Unfortunately, DNNs suffer
from high computational and communication costs, as well as memory consumption
in intricate tasks. These factors restrict the applicability of FL algorithms
in communication-constrained systems with limited hardware resources.
</p>
<p>In this paper, we develop a novel algorithm that overcomes these limitations
by synergistically combining a pruning-based method with the FL process,
resulting in low-dimensional representations of the model with minimal
communication cost, dubbed Masked Pruning over FL (MPFL). The algorithm
operates by initially distributing weights to the nodes through the PS.
Subsequently, each node locally trains its model and computes pruning masks.
These low-dimensional masks are then transmitted back to the PS, which
generates a consensus pruning mask, broadcasted back to the nodes. This
iterative process enhances the robustness and stability of the masked pruning
model. The generated mask is used to train the FL model, achieving significant
bandwidth savings. We present an extensive experimental study demonstrating the
superior performance of MPFL compared to existing methods. Additionally, we
have developed an open-source software package for the benefit of researchers
and developers in related fields.
</p>

## few-shot
### Title: Large Language Models are Good Prompt Learners for Low-Shot Image Classification. (arXiv:2312.04076v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04076](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04076)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04076] Large Language Models are Good Prompt Learners for Low-Shot Image Classification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04076) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Low-shot image classification, where training images are limited or
inaccessible, has benefited from recent progress on pre-trained vision-language
(VL) models with strong generalizability, e.g. CLIP. Prompt learning methods
built with VL models generate text features from the class names that only have
confined class-specific information. Large Language Models (LLMs), with their
vast encyclopedic knowledge, emerge as the complement. Thus, in this paper, we
discuss the integration of LLMs to enhance pre-trained VL models, specifically
on low-shot classification. However, the domain gap between language and vision
blocks the direct application of LLMs. Thus, we propose LLaMP, Large Language
Models as Prompt learners, that produces adaptive prompts for the CLIP text
encoder, establishing it as the connecting bridge. Experiments show that,
compared with other state-of-the-art prompt learning methods, LLaMP yields
better performance on both zero-shot generalization and few-shot image
classification, over a spectrum of 11 datasets.
</p>

### Title: TLCE: Transfer-Learning Based Classifier Ensembles for Few-Shot Class-Incremental Learning. (arXiv:2312.04225v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04225](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04225)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.04225] TLCE: Transfer-Learning Based Classifier Ensembles for Few-Shot Class-Incremental Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.04225) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Few-shot class-incremental learning (FSCIL) struggles to incrementally
recognize novel classes from few examples without catastrophic forgetting of
old classes or overfitting to new classes. We propose TLCE, which ensembles
multiple pre-trained models to improve separation of novel and old classes.
TLCE minimizes interference between old and new classes by mapping old class
images to quasi-orthogonal prototypes using episodic training. It then
ensembles diverse pre-trained models to better adapt to novel classes despite
data imbalance. Extensive experiments on various datasets demonstrate that our
transfer learning ensemble approach outperforms state-of-the-art FSCIL methods.
</p>

### Title: Clinical Risk Prediction Using Language Models: Benefits And Considerations. (arXiv:2312.03742v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03742](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03742)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03742] Clinical Risk Prediction Using Language Models: Benefits And Considerations](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03742) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>The utilization of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) for clinical risk
prediction is on the rise. However, strict privacy regulations limit access to
comprehensive health records, making it challenging to apply standard machine
learning algorithms in practical real-world scenarios. Previous research has
addressed this data limitation by incorporating medical ontologies and
employing transfer learning methods. In this study, we investigate the
potential of leveraging language models (LMs) as a means to incorporate
supplementary domain knowledge for improving the performance of various
EHR-based risk prediction tasks. Unlike applying LMs to unstructured EHR data
such as clinical notes, this study focuses on using textual descriptions within
structured EHR to make predictions exclusively based on that information. We
extensively compare against previous approaches across various data types and
sizes. We find that employing LMs to represent structured EHRs, such as
diagnostic histories, leads to improved or at least comparable performance in
diverse risk prediction tasks. Furthermore, LM-based approaches offer numerous
advantages, including few-shot learning, the capability to handle previously
unseen medical concepts, and adaptability to various medical vocabularies.
Nevertheless, we underscore, through various experiments, the importance of
being cautious when employing such models, as concerns regarding the
reliability of LMs persist.
</p>

### Title: Applying Large Language Models and Chain-of-Thought for Automatic Scoring. (arXiv:2312.03748v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03748](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03748)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03748] Applying Large Language Models and Chain-of-Thought for Automatic Scoring](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03748) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>This study investigates the application of large language models (LLMs),
specifically GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, with Chain-of-Though (CoT)in the automatic
scoring of student-written responses to science assessments. We focused on
overcoming the challenges of accessibility, technical complexity, and lack of
explainability that have previously limited the use of automatic assessment
tools among researchers and educators. We used a testing dataset comprising six
assessment tasks (three binomial and three trinomial) with 1,650 student
responses. We employed six prompt engineering strategies, combining zero-shot
or few-shot learning with CoT, either alone or alongside item stem and scoring
rubrics. Results indicated that few-shot (acc = .67) outperformed zero-shot
learning (acc = .60), with 12.6\% increase. CoT, when used without item stem
and scoring rubrics, did not significantly affect scoring accuracy (acc = .60).
However, CoT prompting paired with contextual item stems and rubrics proved to
be a significant contributor to scoring accuracy (13.44\% increase for
zero-shot; 3.7\% increase for few-shot). Using a novel approach PPEAS, we found
a more balanced accuracy across different proficiency categories, highlighting
the importance of domain-specific reasoning in enhancing the effectiveness of
LLMs in scoring tasks. Additionally, we also found that GPT-4 demonstrated
superior performance over GPT-3.5 in various scoring tasks, showing 8.64\%
difference. The study revealed that the single-call strategy with GPT-4,
particularly using greedy sampling, outperformed other approaches, including
ensemble voting strategies. This study demonstrates the potential of LLMs in
facilitating automatic scoring, emphasizing that CoT enhances accuracy,
particularly when used with item stem and scoring rubrics.
</p>

### Title: Near-real-time Earthquake-induced Fatality Estimation using Crowdsourced Data and Large-Language Models. (arXiv:2312.03755v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03755](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03755)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03755] Near-real-time Earthquake-induced Fatality Estimation using Crowdsourced Data and Large-Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03755) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>When a damaging earthquake occurs, immediate information about casualties is
critical for time-sensitive decision-making by emergency response and aid
agencies in the first hours and days. Systems such as Prompt Assessment of
Global Earthquakes for Response (PAGER) by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)
were developed to provide a forecast within about 30 minutes of any significant
earthquake globally. Traditional systems for estimating human loss in disasters
often depend on manually collected early casualty reports from global media, a
process that's labor-intensive and slow with notable time delays. Recently,
some systems have employed keyword matching and topic modeling to extract
relevant information from social media. However, these methods struggle with
the complex semantics in multilingual texts and the challenge of interpreting
ever-changing, often conflicting reports of death and injury numbers from
various unverified sources on social media platforms. In this work, we
introduce an end-to-end framework to significantly improve the timeliness and
accuracy of global earthquake-induced human loss forecasting using
multi-lingual, crowdsourced social media. Our framework integrates (1) a
hierarchical casualty extraction model built upon large language models, prompt
design, and few-shot learning to retrieve quantitative human loss claims from
social media, (2) a physical constraint-aware, dynamic-truth discovery model
that discovers the truthful human loss from massive noisy and potentially
conflicting human loss claims, and (3) a Bayesian updating loss projection
model that dynamically updates the final loss estimation using discovered
truths. We test the framework in real-time on a series of global earthquake
events in 2021 and 2022 and show that our framework streamlines casualty data
retrieval, achieving speed and accuracy comparable to manual methods by USGS.
</p>

### Title: Adaptive Weighted Co-Learning for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning. (arXiv:2312.03928v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03928](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03928)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2312.03928] Adaptive Weighted Co-Learning for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03928) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Due to the availability of only a few labeled instances for the novel target
prediction task and the significant domain shift between the well annotated
source domain and the target domain, cross-domain few-shot learning (CDFSL)
induces a very challenging adaptation problem. In this paper, we propose a
simple Adaptive Weighted Co-Learning (AWCoL) method to address the CDFSL
challenge by adapting two independently trained source prototypical
classification models to the target task in a weighted co-learning manner. The
proposed method deploys a weighted moving average prediction strategy to
generate probabilistic predictions from each model, and then conducts adaptive
co-learning by jointly fine-tuning the two models in an alternating manner
based on the pseudo-labels and instance weights produced from the predictions.
Moreover, a negative pseudo-labeling regularizer is further deployed to improve
the fine-tuning process by penalizing false predictions. Comprehensive
experiments are conducted on multiple benchmark datasets and the empirical
results demonstrate that the proposed method produces state-of-the-art CDFSL
performance.
</p>

