## diffusion
### Title: Diversity and Diffusion: Observations on Synthetic Image Distributions with Stable Diffusion. (arXiv:2311.00056v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00056](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00056)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00056] Diversity and Diffusion: Observations on Synthetic Image Distributions with Stable Diffusion](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00056) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recent progress in text-to-image (TTI) systems, such as StableDiffusion,
Imagen, and DALL-E 2, have made it possible to create realistic images with
simple text prompts. It is tempting to use these systems to eliminate the
manual task of obtaining natural images for training a new machine learning
classifier. However, in all of the experiments performed to date, classifiers
trained solely with synthetic images perform poorly at inference, despite the
images used for training appearing realistic. Examining this apparent
incongruity in detail gives insight into the limitations of the underlying
image generation processes. Through the lens of diversity in image creation
vs.accuracy of what is created, we dissect the differences in semantic
mismatches in what is modeled in synthetic vs. natural images. This will
elucidate the roles of the image-languag emodel, CLIP, and the image generation
model, diffusion. We find four issues that limit the usefulness of TTI systems
for this task: ambiguity, adherence to prompt, lack of diversity, and inability
to represent the underlying concept. We further present surprising insights
into the geometry of CLIP embeddings.
</p>

### Title: Score Normalization for a Faster Diffusion Exponential Integrator Sampler. (arXiv:2311.00157v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00157](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00157)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00157] Score Normalization for a Faster Diffusion Exponential Integrator Sampler](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00157) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Recently, zhang et al have proposed the Diffusion Exponential Integrator
Sampler (DEIS) for fast generation of samples from Diffusion Models. It
leverages the semi-linear nature of the probability flow ordinary differential
equation (ODE) in order to greatly reduce integration error and improve
generation quality at low numbers of function evaluations (NFEs). Key to this
approach is the score function reparameterisation, which reduces the
integration error incurred from using a fixed score function estimate over each
integration step. The original authors use the default parameterisation used by
models trained for noise prediction -- multiply the score by the standard
deviation of the conditional forward noising distribution. We find that
although the mean absolute value of this score parameterisation is close to
constant for a large portion of the reverse sampling process, it changes
rapidly at the end of sampling. As a simple fix, we propose to instead
reparameterise the score (at inference) by dividing it by the average absolute
value of previous score estimates at that time step collected from offline high
NFE generations. We find that our score normalisation (DEIS-SN) consistently
improves FID compared to vanilla DEIS, showing an FID improvement from 6.44 to
5.57 at 10 NFEs for our CIFAR-10 experiments. Our code is available at
https://github.com/mtkresearch/Diffusion-DEIS-SN.
</p>

### Title: Space Narrative: Generating Images and 3D Scenes of Chinese Garden from Text using Deep Learning. (arXiv:2311.00339v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00339](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00339)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00339] Space Narrative: Generating Images and 3D Scenes of Chinese Garden from Text using Deep Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00339) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>The consistent mapping from poems to paintings is essential for the research
and restoration of traditional Chinese gardens. But the lack of firsthand
ma-terial is a great challenge to the reconstruction work. In this paper, we
pro-pose a method to generate garden paintings based on text descriptions using
deep learning method. Our image-text pair dataset consists of more than one
thousand Ming Dynasty Garden paintings and their inscriptions and post-scripts.
A latent text-to-image diffusion model learns the mapping from de-scriptive
texts to garden paintings of the Ming Dynasty, and then the text description of
Jichang Garden guides the model to generate new garden paintings. The cosine
similarity between the guide text and the generated image is the evaluation
criterion for the generated images. Our dataset is used to fine-tune the
pre-trained diffusion model using Low-Rank Adapta-tion of Large Language Models
(LoRA). We also transformed the generated images into a panorama and created a
free-roam scene in Unity 3D. Our post-trained model is capable of generating
garden images in the style of Ming Dynasty landscape paintings based on textual
descriptions. The gener-ated images are compatible with three-dimensional
presentation in Unity 3D.
</p>

### Title: LatentWarp: Consistent Diffusion Latents for Zero-Shot Video-to-Video Translation. (arXiv:2311.00353v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00353](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00353)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00353] LatentWarp: Consistent Diffusion Latents for Zero-Shot Video-to-Video Translation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00353) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Leveraging the generative ability of image diffusion models offers great
potential for zero-shot video-to-video translation. The key lies in how to
maintain temporal consistency across generated video frames by image diffusion
models. Previous methods typically adopt cross-frame attention, \emph{i.e.,}
sharing the \textit{key} and \textit{value} tokens across attentions of
different frames, to encourage the temporal consistency. However, in those
works, temporal inconsistency issue may not be thoroughly solved, rendering the
fidelity of generated videos limited.%The current state of the art cross-frame
attention method aims at maintaining fine-grained visual details across frames,
but it is still challenged by the temporal coherence problem. In this paper, we
find the bottleneck lies in the unconstrained query tokens and propose a new
zero-shot video-to-video translation framework, named \textit{LatentWarp}. Our
approach is simple: to constrain the query tokens to be temporally consistent,
we further incorporate a warping operation in the latent space to constrain the
query tokens. Specifically, based on the optical flow obtained from the
original video, we warp the generated latent features of last frame to align
with the current frame during the denoising process. As a result, the
corresponding regions across the adjacent frames can share closely-related
query tokens and attention outputs, which can further improve latent-level
consistency to enhance visual temporal coherence of generated videos. Extensive
experiment results demonstrate the superiority of \textit{LatentWarp} in
achieving video-to-video translation with temporal coherence.
</p>

### Title: Dual Conditioned Diffusion Models for Out-Of-Distribution Detection: Application to Fetal Ultrasound Videos. (arXiv:2311.00469v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00469](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00469)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00469] Dual Conditioned Diffusion Models for Out-Of-Distribution Detection: Application to Fetal Ultrasound Videos](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00469) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection is essential to improve the reliability
of machine learning models by detecting samples that do not belong to the
training distribution. Detecting OOD samples effectively in certain tasks can
pose a challenge because of the substantial heterogeneity within the
in-distribution (ID), and the high structural similarity between ID and OOD
classes. For instance, when detecting heart views in fetal ultrasound videos
there is a high structural similarity between the heart and other anatomies
such as the abdomen, and large in-distribution variance as a heart has 5
distinct views and structural variations within each view. To detect OOD
samples in this context, the resulting model should generalise to the
intra-anatomy variations while rejecting similar OOD samples. In this paper, we
introduce dual-conditioned diffusion models (DCDM) where we condition the model
on in-distribution class information and latent features of the input image for
reconstruction-based OOD detection. This constrains the generative manifold of
the model to generate images structurally and semantically similar to those
within the in-distribution. The proposed model outperforms reference methods
with a 12% improvement in accuracy, 22% higher precision, and an 8% better F1
score.
</p>

### Title: Intriguing Properties of Data Attribution on Diffusion Models. (arXiv:2311.00500v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00500](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00500)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/sail-sg/d-trak](https://github.com/sail-sg/d-trak)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00500] Intriguing Properties of Data Attribution on Diffusion Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00500) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>Data attribution seeks to trace model outputs back to training data. With the
recent development of diffusion models, data attribution has become a desired
module to properly assign valuations for high-quality or copyrighted training
samples, ensuring that data contributors are fairly compensated or credited.
Several theoretically motivated methods have been proposed to implement data
attribution, in an effort to improve the trade-off between computational
scalability and effectiveness. In this work, we conduct extensive experiments
and ablation studies on attributing diffusion models, specifically focusing on
DDPMs trained on CIFAR-10 and CelebA, as well as a Stable Diffusion model
LoRA-finetuned on ArtBench. Intriguingly, we report counter-intuitive
observations that theoretically unjustified design choices for attribution
empirically outperform previous baselines by a large margin, in terms of both
linear datamodeling score and counterfactual evaluation. Our work presents a
significantly more efficient approach for attributing diffusion models, while
the unexpected findings suggest that at least in non-convex settings,
constructions guided by theoretical assumptions may lead to inferior
attribution performance. The code is available at
https://github.com/sail-sg/D-TRAK.
</p>

### Title: De-Diffusion Makes Text a Strong Cross-Modal Interface. (arXiv:2311.00618v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00618](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00618)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00618] De-Diffusion Makes Text a Strong Cross-Modal Interface](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00618) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We demonstrate text as a strong cross-modal interface. Rather than relying on
deep embeddings to connect image and language as the interface representation,
our approach represents an image as text, from which we enjoy the
interpretability and flexibility inherent to natural language. We employ an
autoencoder that uses a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model for decoding.
The encoder is trained to transform an input image into text, which is then fed
into the fixed text-to-image diffusion decoder to reconstruct the original
input -- a process we term De-Diffusion. Experiments validate both the
precision and comprehensiveness of De-Diffusion text representing images, such
that it can be readily ingested by off-the-shelf text-to-image tools and LLMs
for diverse multi-modal tasks. For example, a single De-Diffusion model can
generalize to provide transferable prompts for different text-to-image tools,
and also achieves a new state of the art on open-ended vision-language tasks by
simply prompting large language models with few-shot examples.
</p>

### Title: Diffusion models for probabilistic programming. (arXiv:2311.00474v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00474](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00474)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00474] Diffusion models for probabilistic programming](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00474) #diffusion`
* Summary: <p>We propose Diffusion Model Variational Inference (DMVI), a novel method for
automated approximate inference in probabilistic programming languages (PPLs).
DMVI utilizes diffusion models as variational approximations to the true
posterior distribution by deriving a novel bound to the marginal likelihood
objective used in Bayesian modelling. DMVI is easy to implement, allows
hassle-free inference in PPLs without the drawbacks of, e.g., variational
inference using normalizing flows, and does not make any constraints on the
underlying neural network model. We evaluate DMVI on a set of common Bayesian
models and show that its posterior inferences are in general more accurate than
those of contemporary methods used in PPLs while having a similar computational
cost and requiring less manual tuning.
</p>

## self-supervised
### Title: SC-MIL: Sparsely Coded Multiple Instance Learning for Whole Slide Image Classification. (arXiv:2311.00048v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00048](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00048)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00048] SC-MIL: Sparsely Coded Multiple Instance Learning for Whole Slide Image Classification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00048) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Multiple Instance Learning (MIL) has been widely used in weakly supervised
whole slide image (WSI) classification. Typical MIL methods include a feature
embedding part that embeds the instances into features via a pre-trained
feature extractor and the MIL aggregator that combines instance embeddings into
predictions. The current focus has been directed toward improving these parts
by refining the feature embeddings through self-supervised pre-training and
modeling the correlations between instances separately. In this paper, we
proposed a sparsely coded MIL (SC-MIL) that addresses those two aspects at the
same time by leveraging sparse dictionary learning. The sparse dictionary
learning captures the similarities of instances by expressing them as a sparse
linear combination of atoms in an over-complete dictionary. In addition,
imposing sparsity help enhance the instance feature embeddings by suppressing
irrelevant instances while retaining the most relevant ones. To make the
conventional sparse coding algorithm compatible with deep learning, we unrolled
it into an SC module by leveraging deep unrolling. The proposed SC module can
be incorporated into any existing MIL framework in a plug-and-play manner with
an acceptable computation cost. The experimental results on multiple datasets
demonstrated that the proposed SC module could substantially boost the
performance of state-of-the-art MIL methods. The codes are available at
\href{https://github.com/sotiraslab/SCMIL.git}{https://github.com/sotiraslab/SCMIL.git}.
</p>

### Title: Rethinking Samples Selection for Contrastive Learning: Mining of Potential Samples. (arXiv:2311.00358v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00358](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00358)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00358] Rethinking Samples Selection for Contrastive Learning: Mining of Potential Samples](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00358) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Contrastive learning predicts whether two images belong to the same category
by training a model to make their feature representations as close or as far
away as possible. In this paper, we rethink how to mine samples in contrastive
learning, unlike other methods, our approach is more comprehensive, taking into
account both positive and negative samples, and mining potential samples from
two aspects: First, for positive samples, we consider both the augmented sample
views obtained by data augmentation and the mined sample views through data
mining. Then, we weight and combine them using both soft and hard weighting
strategies. Second, considering the existence of uninformative negative samples
and false negative samples in the negative samples, we analyze the negative
samples from the gradient perspective and finally mine negative samples that
are neither too hard nor too easy as potential negative samples, i.e., those
negative samples that are close to positive samples. The experiments show the
obvious advantages of our method compared with some traditional self-supervised
methods. Our method achieves 88.57%, 61.10%, and 36.69% top-1 accuracy on
CIFAR10, CIFAR100, and TinyImagenet, respectively.
</p>

### Title: MNN: Mixed Nearest-Neighbors for Self-Supervised Learning. (arXiv:2311.00562v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00562](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00562)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/pc-cp/mnn](https://github.com/pc-cp/mnn)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00562] MNN: Mixed Nearest-Neighbors for Self-Supervised Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00562) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>In contrastive self-supervised learning, positive samples are typically drawn
from the same image but in different augmented views, resulting in a relatively
limited source of positive samples. An effective way to alleviate this problem
is to incorporate the relationship between samples, which involves including
the top-k nearest neighbors of positive samples in the framework. However, the
problem of false neighbors (i.e., neighbors that do not belong to the same
category as the positive sample) is an objective but often overlooked challenge
due to the query of neighbor samples without human supervision. In this paper,
we present a simple Self-supervised learning framework called Mixed
Nearest-Neighbors for Self-Supervised Learning (MNN). MNN optimizes the
influence of neighbor samples on the semantics of positive samples through an
intuitive weighting approach and image mixture operations. The results of our
study demonstrate that MNN exhibits exceptional generalization performance and
training efficiency on four benchmark datasets.
</p>

### Title: CROMA: Remote Sensing Representations with Contrastive Radar-Optical Masked Autoencoders. (arXiv:2311.00566v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00566](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00566)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/antofuller/croma](https://github.com/antofuller/croma)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00566] CROMA: Remote Sensing Representations with Contrastive Radar-Optical Masked Autoencoders](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00566) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>A vital and rapidly growing application, remote sensing offers vast yet
sparsely labeled, spatially aligned multimodal data; this makes self-supervised
learning algorithms invaluable. We present CROMA: a framework that combines
contrastive and reconstruction self-supervised objectives to learn rich
unimodal and multimodal representations. Our method separately encodes
masked-out multispectral optical and synthetic aperture radar samples --
aligned in space and time -- and performs cross-modal contrastive learning.
Another encoder fuses these sensors, producing joint multimodal encodings that
are used to predict the masked patches via a lightweight decoder. We show that
these objectives are complementary when leveraged on spatially aligned
multimodal data. We also introduce X- and 2D-ALiBi, which spatially biases our
cross- and self-attention matrices. These strategies improve representations
and allow our models to effectively extrapolate to images up to 17.6x larger at
test-time. CROMA outperforms the current SoTA multispectral model, evaluated
on: four classification benchmarks -- finetuning (avg. 1.8%), linear (avg.
2.4%) and nonlinear (avg. 1.4%) probing, kNN classification (avg. 3.5%), and
K-means clustering (avg. 8.4%); and three segmentation benchmarks (avg. 6.4%).
CROMA's rich, optionally multimodal representations can be widely leveraged
across remote sensing applications.
</p>

### Title: Prompt-based Logical Semantics Enhancement for Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition. (arXiv:2311.00367v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00367](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00367)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/lalalamdbf/plse_idrr](https://github.com/lalalamdbf/plse_idrr)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00367] Prompt-based Logical Semantics Enhancement for Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00367) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition (IDRR), which infers discourse
relations without the help of explicit connectives, is still a crucial and
challenging task for discourse parsing. Recent works tend to exploit the
hierarchical structure information from the annotated senses, which demonstrate
enhanced discourse relation representations can be obtained by integrating
sense hierarchy. Nevertheless, the performance and robustness for IDRR are
significantly constrained by the availability of annotated data. Fortunately,
there is a wealth of unannotated utterances with explicit connectives, that can
be utilized to acquire enriched discourse relation features. In light of such
motivation, we propose a Prompt-based Logical Semantics Enhancement (PLSE)
method for IDRR. Essentially, our method seamlessly injects knowledge relevant
to discourse relation into pre-trained language models through prompt-based
connective prediction. Furthermore, considering the prompt-based connective
prediction exhibits local dependencies due to the deficiency of masked language
model (MLM) in capturing global semantics, we design a novel self-supervised
learning objective based on mutual information maximization to derive enhanced
representations of logical semantics for IDRR. Experimental results on PDTB 2.0
and CoNLL16 datasets demonstrate that our method achieves outstanding and
consistent performance against the current state-of-the-art models.
</p>

### Title: Explicit Morphological Knowledge Improves Pre-training of Language Models for Hebrew. (arXiv:2311.00658v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00658](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00658)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00658] Explicit Morphological Knowledge Improves Pre-training of Language Models for Hebrew](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00658) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>Pre-trained language models (PLMs) have shown remarkable successes in
acquiring a wide range of linguistic knowledge, relying solely on
self-supervised training on text streams. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of
this language-agnostic approach has been frequently questioned for its
sub-optimal performance when applied to morphologically-rich languages (MRLs).
We investigate the hypothesis that incorporating explicit morphological
knowledge in the pre-training phase can improve the performance of PLMs for
MRLs. We propose various morphologically driven tokenization methods enabling
the model to leverage morphological cues beyond raw text. We pre-train multiple
language models utilizing the different methods and evaluate them on Hebrew, a
language with complex and highly ambiguous morphology. Our experiments show
that morphologically driven tokenization demonstrates improved results compared
to a standard language-agnostic tokenization, on a benchmark of both semantic
and morphologic tasks. These findings suggest that incorporating morphological
knowledge holds the potential for further improving PLMs for morphologically
rich languages.
</p>

### Title: Retrieval-Based Reconstruction For Time-series Contrastive Learning. (arXiv:2311.00519v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00519](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00519)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00519] Retrieval-Based Reconstruction For Time-series Contrastive Learning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00519) #self-supervised`
* Summary: <p>The success of self-supervised contrastive learning hinges on identifying
positive data pairs that, when pushed together in embedding space, encode
useful information for subsequent downstream tasks. However, in time-series,
this is challenging because creating positive pairs via augmentations may break
the original semantic meaning. We hypothesize that if we can retrieve
information from one subsequence to successfully reconstruct another
subsequence, then they should form a positive pair. Harnessing this intuition,
we introduce our novel approach: REtrieval-BAsed Reconstruction (REBAR)
contrastive learning. First, we utilize a convolutional cross-attention
architecture to calculate the REBAR error between two different time-series.
Then, through validation experiments, we show that the REBAR error is a
predictor of mutual class membership, justifying its usage as a
positive/negative labeler. Finally, once integrated into a contrastive learning
framework, our REBAR method can learn an embedding that achieves
state-of-the-art performance on downstream tasks across various modalities.
</p>

## foundation model
## generative
### Title: Flooding Regularization for Stable Training of Generative Adversarial Networks. (arXiv:2311.00318v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00318](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00318)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00318] Flooding Regularization for Stable Training of Generative Adversarial Networks](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00318) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have shown remarkable performance in
image generation. However, GAN training suffers from the problem of
instability. One of the main approaches to address this problem is to modify
the loss function, often using regularization terms in addition to changing the
type of adversarial losses. This paper focuses on directly regularizing the
adversarial loss function. We propose a method that applies flooding, an
overfitting suppression method in supervised learning, to GANs to directly
prevent the discriminator's loss from becoming excessively low. Flooding
requires tuning the flood level, but when applied to GANs, we propose that the
appropriate range of flood level settings is determined by the adversarial loss
function, supported by theoretical analysis of GANs using the binary cross
entropy loss. We experimentally verify that flooding stabilizes GAN training
and can be combined with other stabilization techniques. We also reveal that by
restricting the discriminator's loss to be no greater than flood level, the
training proceeds stably even when the flood level is somewhat high.
</p>

### Title: Feature-oriented Deep Learning Framework for Pulmonary Cone-beam CT (CBCT) Enhancement with Multi-task Customized Perceptual Loss. (arXiv:2311.00412v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00412](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00412)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/zhujiarui42/cfp-loss](https://github.com/zhujiarui42/cfp-loss)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00412] Feature-oriented Deep Learning Framework for Pulmonary Cone-beam CT (CBCT) Enhancement with Multi-task Customized Perceptual Loss](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00412) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) is routinely collected during
image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) to provide updated patient anatomy
information for cancer treatments. However, CBCT images often suffer from
streaking artifacts and noise caused by under-rate sampling projections and
low-dose exposure, resulting in low clarity and information loss. While recent
deep learning-based CBCT enhancement methods have shown promising results in
suppressing artifacts, they have limited performance on preserving anatomical
details since conventional pixel-to-pixel loss functions are incapable of
describing detailed anatomy. To address this issue, we propose a novel
feature-oriented deep learning framework that translates low-quality CBCT
images into high-quality CT-like imaging via a multi-task customized
feature-to-feature perceptual loss function. The framework comprises two main
components: a multi-task learning feature-selection network(MTFS-Net) for
customizing the perceptual loss function; and a CBCT-to-CT translation network
guided by feature-to-feature perceptual loss, which uses advanced generative
models such as U-Net, GAN and CycleGAN. Our experiments showed that the
proposed framework can generate synthesized CT (sCT) images for the lung that
achieved a high similarity to CT images, with an average SSIM index of 0.9869
and an average PSNR index of 39.9621. The sCT images also achieved visually
pleasing performance with effective artifacts suppression, noise reduction, and
distinctive anatomical details preservation. Our experiment results indicate
that the proposed framework outperforms the state-of-the-art models for
pulmonary CBCT enhancement. This framework holds great promise for generating
high-quality anatomical imaging from CBCT that is suitable for various clinical
applications.
</p>

### Title: JADE: A Linguistic-based Safety Evaluation Platform for LLM. (arXiv:2311.00286v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00286](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00286)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00286] JADE: A Linguistic-based Safety Evaluation Platform for LLM](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00286) #generative`
* Summary: <p>In this paper, we present \textit{JADE}, a targeted linguistic fuzzing
platform which strengthens the linguistic complexity of seed questions to
simultaneously and consistently break a wide range of widely-used LLMs
categorized in three groups: eight open-sourced Chinese, six commercial Chinese
and four commercial English LLMs. JADE generates three safety benchmarks for
the three groups of LLMs, which contain unsafe questions that are highly
threatening: the questions simultaneously trigger harmful generation of
multiple LLMs, with an average unsafe generation ratio of \textbf{$70\%$}
(please see the table below), while are still natural questions, fluent and
preserving the core unsafe semantics. We release the benchmark demos generated
for commercial English LLMs and open-sourced English LLMs in the following
link: https://github.com/whitzard-ai/jade-db. For readers who are interested in
evaluating on more questions generated by JADE, please contact us.
</p>
<p>\textit{JADE} is based on Noam Chomsky's seminal theory of
transformational-generative grammar. Given a seed question with unsafe
intention, \textit{JADE} invokes a sequence of generative and transformational
rules to increment the complexity of the syntactic structure of the original
question, until the safety guardrail is broken. Our key insight is: Due to the
complexity of human language, most of the current best LLMs can hardly
recognize the invariant evil from the infinite number of different syntactic
structures which form an unbound example space that can never be fully covered.
Technically, the generative/transformative rules are constructed by native
speakers of the languages, and, once developed, can be used to automatically
grow and transform the parse tree of a given question, until the guardrail is
broken. For more evaluation results and demo, please check our website:
https://whitzard-ai.github.io/jade.html.
</p>

### Title: HARE: Explainable Hate Speech Detection with Step-by-Step Reasoning. (arXiv:2311.00321v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00321](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00321)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/joonkeekim/hare-hate-speech](https://github.com/joonkeekim/hare-hate-speech)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00321] HARE: Explainable Hate Speech Detection with Step-by-Step Reasoning](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00321) #generative`
* Summary: <p>With the proliferation of social media, accurate detection of hate speech has
become critical to ensure safety online. To combat nuanced forms of hate
speech, it is important to identify and thoroughly explain hate speech to help
users understand its harmful effects. Recent benchmarks have attempted to
tackle this issue by training generative models on free-text annotations of
implications in hateful text. However, we find significant reasoning gaps in
the existing annotations schemes, which may hinder the supervision of detection
models. In this paper, we introduce a hate speech detection framework, HARE,
which harnesses the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) to
fill these gaps in explanations of hate speech, thus enabling effective
supervision of detection models. Experiments on SBIC and Implicit Hate
benchmarks show that our method, using model-generated data, consistently
outperforms baselines, using existing free-text human annotations. Analysis
demonstrates that our method enhances the explanation quality of trained models
and improves generalization to unseen datasets. Our code is available at
https://github.com/joonkeekim/hare-hate-speech.git.
</p>

### Title: An Embedded Diachronic Sense Change Model with a Case Study from Ancient Greek. (arXiv:2311.00541v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00541](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00541)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/schyanzafar/edisc](https://github.com/schyanzafar/edisc)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00541] An Embedded Diachronic Sense Change Model with a Case Study from Ancient Greek](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00541) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Word meanings change over time, and word senses evolve, emerge or die out in
the process. For ancient languages, where the corpora are often small, sparse
and noisy, modelling such changes accurately proves challenging, and
quantifying uncertainty in sense-change estimates consequently becomes
important. GASC and DiSC are existing generative models that have been used to
analyse sense change for target words from an ancient Greek text corpus, using
unsupervised learning without the help of any pre-training. These models
represent the senses of a given target word such as "kosmos" (meaning
decoration, order or world) as distributions over context words, and sense
prevalence as a distribution over senses. The models are fitted using MCMC
methods to measure temporal changes in these representations. In this paper, we
introduce EDiSC, an embedded version of DiSC, which combines word embeddings
with DiSC to provide superior model performance. We show empirically that EDiSC
offers improved predictive accuracy, ground-truth recovery and uncertainty
quantification, as well as better sampling efficiency and scalability
properties with MCMC methods. We also discuss the challenges of fitting these
models.
</p>

### Title: Are Large Language Models Reliable Judges? A Study on the Factuality Evaluation Capabilities of LLMs. (arXiv:2311.00681v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00681](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00681)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00681] Are Large Language Models Reliable Judges? A Study on the Factuality Evaluation Capabilities of LLMs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00681) #generative`
* Summary: <p>In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained immense attention
due to their notable emergent capabilities, surpassing those seen in earlier
language models. A particularly intriguing application of LLMs is their role as
evaluators for texts produced by various generative models.
</p>
<p>In this study, we delve into the potential of LLMs as reliable assessors of
factual consistency in summaries generated by text-generation models.
Initially, we introduce an innovative approach for factuality assessment using
LLMs. This entails employing a singular LLM for the entirety of the
question-answering-based factuality scoring process. Following this, we examine
the efficacy of various LLMs in direct factuality scoring, benchmarking them
against traditional measures and human annotations.
</p>
<p>Contrary to initial expectations, our results indicate a lack of significant
correlations between factuality metrics and human evaluations, specifically for
GPT-4 and PaLM-2. Notable correlations were only observed with GPT-3.5 across
two factuality subcategories. These consistent findings across various factual
error categories suggest a fundamental limitation in the current LLMs'
capability to accurately gauge factuality.
</p>
<p>This version presents the information more concisely while maintaining the
main points and findings of the original text.
</p>

### Title: Uncertainty quantification and out-of-distribution detection using surjective normalizing flows. (arXiv:2311.00377v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00377](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00377)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00377] Uncertainty quantification and out-of-distribution detection using surjective normalizing flows](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00377) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Reliable quantification of epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty is of crucial
importance in applications where models are trained in one environment but
applied to multiple different environments, often seen in real-world
applications for example, in climate science or mobility analysis. We propose a
simple approach using surjective normalizing flows to identify
out-of-distribution data sets in deep neural network models that can be
computed in a single forward pass. The method builds on recent developments in
deep uncertainty quantification and generative modeling with normalizing flows.
We apply our method to a synthetic data set that has been simulated using a
mechanistic model from the mobility literature and several data sets simulated
from interventional distributions induced by soft and atomic interventions on
that model, and demonstrate that our method can reliably discern
out-of-distribution data from in-distribution data. We compare the surjective
flow model to a Dirichlet process mixture model and a bijective flow and find
that the surjections are a crucial component to reliably distinguish
in-distribution from out-of-distribution data.
</p>

### Title: Optimal Budgeted Rejection Sampling for Generative Models. (arXiv:2311.00460v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00460](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00460)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00460] Optimal Budgeted Rejection Sampling for Generative Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00460) #generative`
* Summary: <p>Rejection sampling methods have recently been proposed to improve the
performance of discriminator-based generative models. However, these methods
are only optimal under an unlimited sampling budget, and are usually applied to
a generator trained independently of the rejection procedure. We first propose
an Optimal Budgeted Rejection Sampling (OBRS) scheme that is provably optimal
with respect to \textit{any} $f$-divergence between the true distribution and
the post-rejection distribution, for a given sampling budget. Second, we
propose an end-to-end method that incorporates the sampling scheme into the
training procedure to further enhance the model's overall performance. Through
experiments and supporting theory, we show that the proposed methods are
effective in significantly improving the quality and diversity of the samples.
</p>

## anomaly
### Title: CLIP-AD: A Language-Guided Staged Dual-Path Model for Zero-shot Anomaly Detection. (arXiv:2311.00453v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00453](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00453)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00453] CLIP-AD: A Language-Guided Staged Dual-Path Model for Zero-shot Anomaly Detection](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00453) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>This paper considers zero-shot Anomaly Detection (AD), a valuable yet
under-studied task, which performs AD without any reference images of the test
objects. Specifically, we employ a language-guided strategy and propose a
simple-yet-effective architecture CLIP-AD, leveraging the superior zero-shot
classification capabilities of the large vision-language model CLIP. A natural
idea for anomaly segmentation is to directly calculate the similarity between
text/image features, but we observe opposite predictions and irrelevant
highlights in the results. Inspired by the phenomena, we introduce a Staged
Dual-Path model (SDP) that effectively uses features from various levels and
applies architecture and feature surgery to address these issues. Furthermore,
delving beyond surface phenomena, we identify the problem arising from
misalignment of text/image features in the joint embedding space. Thus, we
introduce a fine-tuning strategy by adding linear layers and construct an
extended model SDP+, further enhancing the performance. Abundant experiments
demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, e.g., on VisA, SDP outperforms
SOTA by +1.0/+1.2 in classification/segmentation F1 scores, while SDP+ achieves
+1.9/+11.7 improvements.
</p>

### Title: Architecture of Data Anomaly Detection-Enhanced Decentralized Expert System for Early-Stage Alzheimer's Disease Prediction. (arXiv:2311.00373v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00373](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00373)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00373] Architecture of Data Anomaly Detection-Enhanced Decentralized Expert System for Early-Stage Alzheimer's Disease Prediction](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00373) #anomaly`
* Summary: <p>Alzheimer's Disease is a global health challenge that requires early and
accurate detection to improve patient outcomes. Magnetic Resonance Imaging
(MRI) holds significant diagnostic potential, but its effective analysis
remains a formidable task. This study introduces a groundbreaking decentralized
expert system that cleverly combines blockchain technology with Artificial
Intelligence (AI) to integrate robust anomaly detection for patient-submitted
data.
</p>
<p>Traditional diagnostic methods often lead to delayed and imprecise
predictions, especially in the early stages of the disease. Centralized data
repositories struggle to manage the immense volumes of MRI data, and persistent
privacy concerns hinder collaborative efforts. Our innovative solution
harnesses decentralization to protect data integrity and patient privacy,
facilitated by blockchain technology. It not only emphasizes AI-driven MRI
analysis but also incorporates a sophisticated data anomaly detection
architecture. These mechanisms scrutinize patient-contributed data for various
issues, including data quality problems and atypical findings within MRI
images.
</p>
<p>Conducting an exhaustive check of MRI image correctness and quality directly
on the blockchain is impractical due to computational complexity and cost
constraints. Typically, such checks are performed off-chain, and the blockchain
securely records the results. This comprehensive approach empowers our
decentralized app to provide more precise early-stage Alzheimer's Disease
predictions. By merging the strengths of blockchain, AI, and anomaly detection,
our system represents a pioneering step towards revolutionizing disease
diagnostics.
</p>

## in-context
### Title: The Mystery and Fascination of LLMs: A Comprehensive Survey on the Interpretation and Analysis of Emergent Abilities. (arXiv:2311.00237v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00237](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00237)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00237] The Mystery and Fascination of LLMs: A Comprehensive Survey on the Interpretation and Analysis of Emergent Abilities](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00237) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>Understanding emergent abilities, such as in-context learning (ICL) and
chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting in large language models (LLMs), is of utmost
importance. This importance stems not only from the better utilization of these
capabilities across various tasks, but also from the proactive identification
and mitigation of potential risks, including concerns of truthfulness, bias,
and toxicity, that may arise alongside these capabilities. In this paper, we
present a thorough survey on the interpretation and analysis of emergent
abilities of LLMs. First, we provide a concise introduction to the background
and definition of emergent abilities. Then, we give an overview of advancements
from two perspectives: 1) a macro perspective, emphasizing studies on the
mechanistic interpretability and delving into the mathematical foundations
behind emergent abilities; and 2) a micro-perspective, concerning studies that
focus on empirical interpretability by examining factors associated with these
abilities. We conclude by highlighting the challenges encountered and
suggesting potential avenues for future research. We believe that our work
establishes the basis for further exploration into the interpretation of
emergent abilities.
</p>

### Title: Crosslingual Retrieval Augmented In-context Learning for Bangla. (arXiv:2311.00587v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00587](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00587)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00587] Crosslingual Retrieval Augmented In-context Learning for Bangla](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00587) #in-context`
* Summary: <p>The promise of Large Language Models (LLMs) in Natural Language Processing
has often been overshadowed by their limited performance in low-resource
languages such as Bangla. To address this, our paper presents a pioneering
approach that utilizes cross-lingual retrieval augmented in-context learning.
By strategically sourcing semantically similar prompts from high-resource
language, we enable multilingual pretrained language models (MPLMs), especially
the generative model BLOOMZ, to successfully boost performance on Bangla tasks.
Our extensive evaluation highlights that the cross-lingual retrieval augmented
prompts bring steady improvements to MPLMs over the zero-shot performance.
</p>

## memory
### Title: Style Locality for Controllable Generation with kNN Language Models. (arXiv:2311.00475v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00475](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00475)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00475] Style Locality for Controllable Generation with kNN Language Models](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00475) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Recent language models have been improved by the addition of external memory.
Nearest neighbor language models retrieve similar contexts to assist in word
prediction. The addition of locality levels allows a model to learn how to
weight neighbors based on their relative location to the current text in source
documents, and have been shown to further improve model performance. Nearest
neighbor models have been explored for controllable generation but have not
examined the use of locality levels. We present a novel approach for this
purpose and evaluate it using automatic and human evaluation on politeness,
formality, supportiveness, and toxicity textual data. We find that our model is
successfully able to control style and provides a better fluency-style
trade-off than previous work.
</p>

### Title: Efficient LLM Inference on CPUs. (arXiv:2311.00502v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00502](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00502)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-transformers](https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-transformers)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00502] Efficient LLM Inference on CPUs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00502) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance and
tremendous potential across a wide range of tasks. However, deploying these
models has been challenging due to the astronomical amount of model parameters,
which requires a demand for large memory capacity and high memory bandwidth. In
this paper, we propose an effective approach that can make the deployment of
LLMs more efficiently. We support an automatic INT4 weight-only quantization
flow and design a special LLM runtime with highly-optimized kernels to
accelerate the LLM inference on CPUs. We demonstrate the general applicability
of our approach on popular LLMs including Llama2, Llama, GPT-NeoX, and showcase
the extreme inference efficiency on CPUs. The code is publicly available at:
https://github.com/intel/intel-extension-for-transformers.
</p>

### Title: Stacking an autoencoder for feature selection of zero-day threats. (arXiv:2311.00304v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00304](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00304)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00304] Stacking an autoencoder for feature selection of zero-day threats](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00304) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Zero-day attack detection plays a critical role in mitigating risks,
protecting assets, and staying ahead in the evolving threat landscape. This
study explores the application of stacked autoencoder (SAE), a type of
artificial neural network, for feature selection and zero-day threat
classification using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) scheme. The process
involves preprocessing the UGRansome dataset and training an unsupervised SAE
for feature extraction. Finetuning with supervised learning is then performed
to enhance the discriminative capabilities of this model. The learned weights
and activations of the autoencoder are analyzed to identify the most important
features for discriminating between zero-day threats and normal system
behavior. These selected features form a reduced feature set that enables
accurate classification. The results indicate that the SAE-LSTM performs well
across all three attack categories by showcasing high precision, recall, and F1
score values, emphasizing the model's strong predictive capabilities in
identifying various types of zero-day attacks. Additionally, the balanced
average scores of the SAE-LSTM suggest that the model generalizes effectively
and consistently across different attack categories.
</p>

### Title: Revealing CNN Architectures via Side-Channel Analysis in Dataflow-based Inference Accelerators. (arXiv:2311.00579v1 [cs.CR])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00579](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00579)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00579] Revealing CNN Architectures via Side-Channel Analysis in Dataflow-based Inference Accelerators](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00579) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs) are widely used in various domains. Recent
advances in dataflow-based CNN accelerators have enabled CNN inference in
resource-constrained edge devices. These dataflow accelerators utilize inherent
data reuse of convolution layers to process CNN models efficiently. Concealing
the architecture of CNN models is critical for privacy and security. This paper
evaluates memory-based side-channel information to recover CNN architectures
from dataflow-based CNN inference accelerators. The proposed attack exploits
spatial and temporal data reuse of the dataflow mapping on CNN accelerators and
architectural hints to recover the structure of CNN models. Experimental
results demonstrate that our proposed side-channel attack can recover the
structures of popular CNN models, namely Lenet, Alexnet, and VGGnet16.
</p>

### Title: Coop: Memory is not a Commodity. (arXiv:2311.00591v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00591](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00591)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00591] Coop: Memory is not a Commodity](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00591) #memory`
* Summary: <p>Tensor rematerialization allows the training of deep neural networks (DNNs)
under limited memory budgets by checkpointing the models and recomputing the
evicted tensors as needed. However, the existing tensor rematerialization
techniques overlook the memory system in deep learning frameworks and
implicitly assume that free memory blocks at different addresses are identical.
Under this flawed assumption, discontiguous tensors are evicted, among which
some are not used to allocate the new tensor. This leads to severe memory
fragmentation and increases the cost of potential rematerializations. To
address this issue, we propose to evict tensors within a sliding window to
ensure all evictions are contiguous and are immediately used. Furthermore, we
proposed cheap tensor partitioning and recomputable in-place to further reduce
the rematerialization cost by optimizing the tensor allocation. We named our
method Coop as it is a co-optimization of tensor allocation and tensor
rematerialization. We evaluated Coop on eight representative DNNs. The
experimental results demonstrate that Coop achieves up to $2\times$ memory
saving and hugely reduces compute overhead, search latency, and memory
fragmentation compared to the state-of-the-art baselines.
</p>

## few-shot
### Title: Re-Scoring Using Image-Language Similarity for Few-Shot Object Detection. (arXiv:2311.00278v1 [cs.CV])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00278](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00278)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00278] Re-Scoring Using Image-Language Similarity for Few-Shot Object Detection](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00278) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Few-shot object detection, which focuses on detecting novel objects with few
labels, is an emerging challenge in the community. Recent studies show that
adapting a pre-trained model or modified loss function can improve performance.
In this paper, we explore leveraging the power of Contrastive Language-Image
Pre-training (CLIP) and hard negative classification loss in low data setting.
Specifically, we propose Re-scoring using Image-language Similarity for
Few-shot object detection (RISF) which extends Faster R-CNN by introducing
Calibration Module using CLIP (CM-CLIP) and Background Negative Re-scale Loss
(BNRL). The former adapts CLIP, which performs zero-shot classification, to
re-score the classification scores of a detector using image-class
similarities, the latter is modified classification loss considering the
punishment for fake backgrounds as well as confusing categories on a
generalized few-shot object detection dataset. Extensive experiments on MS-COCO
and PASCAL VOC show that the proposed RISF substantially outperforms the
state-of-the-art approaches. The code will be available.
</p>

### Title: Noisy Exemplars Make Large Language Models More Robust: A Domain-Agnostic Behavioral Analysis. (arXiv:2311.00258v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00258](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00258)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/hiroki39/noisy-exemplars-make-large-language-models-more-robust](https://github.com/hiroki39/noisy-exemplars-make-large-language-models-more-robust)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00258] Noisy Exemplars Make Large Language Models More Robust: A Domain-Agnostic Behavioral Analysis](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00258) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Recent advances in prompt engineering enable large language models (LLMs) to
solve multi-hop logical reasoning problems with impressive accuracy. However,
there is little existing work investigating the robustness of LLMs with
few-shot prompting techniques. Therefore, we introduce a systematic approach to
test the robustness of LLMs in multi-hop reasoning tasks via domain-agnostic
perturbations. We include perturbations at multiple levels of abstractions
(e.g. lexical perturbations such as typos, and semantic perturbations such as
the inclusion of intermediate reasoning steps in the questions) to conduct
behavioral analysis on the LLMs. Throughout our experiments, we find that
models are more sensitive to certain perturbations such as replacing words with
their synonyms. We also demonstrate that increasing the proportion of perturbed
exemplars in the prompts improves the robustness of few-shot prompting methods.
</p>

### Title: AdaSent: Efficient Domain-Adapted Sentence Embeddings for Few-Shot Classification. (arXiv:2311.00408v1 [cs.CL])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00408](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00408)
* Code URL: [https://github.com/ukplab/adasent](https://github.com/ukplab/adasent)
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00408] AdaSent: Efficient Domain-Adapted Sentence Embeddings for Few-Shot Classification](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00408) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Recent work has found that few-shot sentence classification based on
pre-trained Sentence Encoders (SEs) is efficient, robust, and effective. In
this work, we investigate strategies for domain-specialization in the context
of few-shot sentence classification with SEs. We first establish that
unsupervised Domain-Adaptive Pre-Training (DAPT) of a base Pre-trained Language
Model (PLM) (i.e., not an SE) substantially improves the accuracy of few-shot
sentence classification by up to 8.4 points. However, applying DAPT on SEs, on
the one hand, disrupts the effects of their (general-domain) Sentence Embedding
Pre-Training (SEPT). On the other hand, applying general-domain SEPT on top of
a domain-adapted base PLM (i.e., after DAPT) is effective but inefficient,
since the computationally expensive SEPT needs to be executed on top of a
DAPT-ed PLM of each domain. As a solution, we propose AdaSent, which decouples
SEPT from DAPT by training a SEPT adapter on the base PLM. The adapter can be
inserted into DAPT-ed PLMs from any domain. We demonstrate AdaSent's
effectiveness in extensive experiments on 17 different few-shot sentence
classification datasets. AdaSent matches or surpasses the performance of full
SEPT on DAPT-ed PLM, while substantially reducing the training costs. The code
for AdaSent is available.
</p>

### Title: Training-Free Generalization on Heterogeneous Tabular Data via Meta-Representation. (arXiv:2311.00055v1 [cs.LG])
* Paper URL: [http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00055](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00055)
* Code URL: null
* Copy Paste: `<input type="checkbox">[[2311.00055] Training-Free Generalization on Heterogeneous Tabular Data via Meta-Representation](http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.00055) #few-shot`
* Summary: <p>Tabular data is prevalent across various machine learning domains. Yet, the
inherent heterogeneities in attribute and class spaces across different tabular
datasets hinder the effective sharing of knowledge, limiting a tabular model to
benefit from other datasets. In this paper, we propose Tabular data
Pre-Training via Meta-representation (TabPTM), which allows one tabular model
pre-training on a set of heterogeneous datasets. Then, this pre-trained model
can be directly applied to unseen datasets that have diverse attributes and
classes without additional training. Specifically, TabPTM represents an
instance through its distance to a fixed number of prototypes, thereby
standardizing heterogeneous tabular datasets. A deep neural network is then
trained to associate these meta-representations with dataset-specific
classification confidences, endowing TabPTM with the ability of training-free
generalization. Experiments validate that TabPTM achieves promising performance
in new datasets, even under few-shot scenarios.
</p>

